# A2 — Amazon delivery worker interview

Interviewer: What kind of delivery jobs do you do?

Interviewee: Okay. I do Uber Eats, Postmates, some Amazon, and when it's seasonal, I do UPS.

Interviewer: Okay. How do you find each of these jobs?

Interviewee: Either Google, Indeed or Career Builder.

Interviewer: Yeah, especially with the Uber Eats one, how long have you been working there?

Interviewee: For about, almost six to seven months, almost close to a year.

Interviewer: Okay. And how long have you been working for Amazon?

Interviewee: Oh, for about a year.

Interviewer: About a year. With these two specifically, how did you find those two jobs?

Interviewee: Well, I mostly look for work at home job. So when I looked on there, Shaq has his own app called Steady.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: That's how I got connected with them.

Interviewer: Okay. And do you have other jobs besides the ones that you listed or are these your, these are how you make money?

Interviewee: Yeah, this is how I make money, but I do retail merchandising as well.

Interviewer: Okay. And that's from home?

Interviewee: No, you go to different stores.

Interviewer: Okay. So with your Uber Eats job and with your Amazon job, do you have a specific manager that you talk to?

Interviewee: Hmm. No, it's like independent work. You choose the work for yourself.

Interviewer: Okay. And so if you have an issue with a delivery or something's unclear, who do you talk to to figure that out?

Interviewee: I call customer service.

Interviewer: Okay. So it's a different person every time?

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: It's not the same person.

Interviewer: Was there any kind of training when you started your job at Amazon?

Interviewee: Just videos.

Interviewer: Just videos?

Interviewee: Yeah. Just showing how everything goes.

Interviewer: Do you do Flex or Amazon Prime now?

Interviewee: I do Amazon Prime

Interviewer: Prime now. And so, how does the job work? What do you have to do?

Interviewee: You select different jobs that you see and go out for delivery.

Interviewer: Do you drive a car?

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: So do you drive a car to a warehouse?

Interviewee: You can. You can, but they don't like us to come straight to the warehouse. We get it from third party [inaudible 00:03:16] and stuff like that.

Interviewer: Oh, like a store or a different warehouse?

Interviewee: Yeah, store.

Interviewer: Oh, okay. So do they send you a list and then you go into the store and find those things?

Interviewee: Yes.

Interviewer: Oh, I see. So do you end up doing lots of different kinds of stores?

Interviewee: Yeah, it depends on where the item is located.

Interviewer: And so, is there like an app or something that they talk to you through?

Interviewee: Yeah, it's a Prime app that you have to download onto your phone.

Interviewer: And do you download the prime app when you apply for the job and then they give you shifts or how does that part work?

Interviewee: After you get the job, then they send you all the information.

Interviewer: Oh, I see. And with that, does the shopping list appear on the app and and you go through each item and check it off?

Interviewee: Yes ma'am.

Interviewer: Do you get to pick what stores you go to?

Interviewee: No, ma'am.

Interviewer: I think you mentioned it a little bit, but how did the shifts work?

Interviewee: Well, you can do eight hours, six hours, an hour, whatever you choose to go with.

Interviewer: Oh, so you get to pick your hours. It's not that they have a couple shifts and people try to compete and sign up for them?

Interviewee: Right.

Interviewer: Okay. Are there checklist items that you go through when you open the app per order?

Interviewee: Yeah. When you do gift orders, they give you a checklist to go through, just mark off your item.

Interviewer: Oh, I see. Okay. So then do you end up doing a couple orders at the same time or is it one at a time?

Interviewee: You can, but I wouldn't advise that because your items and things can get confused sometimes.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. So sometimes you fulfill an order at a time and then do you sometimes end up having to go back to the same store for the following order?

Interviewee: Sometimes.

Interviewer: Yeah. When you started, was there an introduction to the job where, you mentioned a couple of videos, what did the videos talk about?

Interviewee: Just what will be within a job, what you will have to do. You have to bend, kneel, stoop and all that type of things to pick up items.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. And then-

Interviewee: Basic things.

Interviewer: And is it a two hour window or how does it go from when you received the order to delivering the order? What happens?

Interviewee: You get the order done as soon as you can, as soon as possible.

Interviewer: Yeah. So does your app ping you when there's a new order and say, can you fill this? Yes, no?

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: Okay. So is it sort of like Uber in the sense that you can log on and say, I can take anything that's available right now? What's available? Is it like that?

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: Okay. And then is there a timer on the app that says, here's how much longer you have to do it? No?

Interviewee: No.

Interviewer: It's just try to get it done as fast as you can?

Interviewee: Right.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. Did you have to sign any contracts when you started this job?

Interviewee: Independent contract.

Interviewer: Independent contract. And did it explain what your job was or do you remember what it said in the contract?

Interviewee: I don't remember exactly, but it mostly explained how the job those and the pay and all of that, arbitration and things like that.

Interviewer: Yeah. Is there any kind of data that they ask you to collect while you're working?

Interviewee: Just the data from your order. That's all.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: If you have a problem with your order and things like that.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. Are there other devices or tools that you have to use to do the job besides your phone and your car?

Interviewee: No. That's it.

Interviewer: That's it. Have you ever had to test any new software for the company?

Interviewee: No, ma'am.

Interviewer: No. How does this job compare to other work that you've done before?

Interviewee: It's totally different because I'm used to going into stores, reading planograms and stocking shelves. I'm not used to doing delivery work, so when I started, it was something new to me.

Interviewer: Yeah. Was it difficult?

Interviewee: No, it's actually easy.

Interviewer: Yeah. Do you prefer it-

Interviewee: Once you get the hang of it.

Interviewer: Do you prefer it to work that you were doing before?

Interviewee: I love the work that I was doing before. I actually, I'm an independent contractor as well for retail merchandising.

Interviewer: Yeah, so it's two different kinds of work that you have to do. Between all the companies you work for, are there some that are easier to work for than others?

Interviewee: They're about the same to me.

Interviewer: Yeah. Yeah. With any of them, do you have to sign up for specific shifts?

Interviewee: Sometimes, yeah. For Postmates, you are in the battle for the job. It can be you're delivering a table and there could be five different people on that same, want that same contract, so you got to bid.

Interviewer: okay. And with the other ones, it's more like you turn on something and it says that you're active and then they send you jobs. And then you complete them.

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: Has anything changed since you were working for Amazon?

Interviewee: No ma'am. Not yet.

Interviewer: It's been consistent?

Interviewee: Yeah. I hope it doesn't change.

Interviewer: Okay. How do you think it might change?

Interviewee: They probably get more strict on the timing and stuff like that. And that's about it.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: Nothing major.

Interviewer: For Amazon, how much do you make an hour?

Interviewee: $12.

Interviewer: $12, and that's always consistent?

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: How much do you try to make in a week?

Interviewee: Well, I try to go do my 40 hours a week. I try.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: But sometimes you can't get the 40

Interviewer: yeah. Is that as a combination from all the different companies that you mentioned?

Interviewee: Right.

Interviewer: Yeah. So it seems like the Postmates one you have to make a bid for, so maybe you know how much time you're going to have there. And then how do you decide between the other companies, which one you'll turn on or which one you'll work for?

Interviewee: Well, actually I don't work them every day. Like Amazon, I don't work them every day because I want to give my self time enough to work for each company or at least once a week.

Interviewer: Oh, okay. So you see what's available. You just designate a specific day and say, I'll see what's available on this company that day.

Interviewee: Right.

Interviewer: Okay. Is there one that you find has much more variation in the number of hours that they give you?

Interviewee: Yeah, just Amazon.

Interviewer: That's the most variable one?

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: Yeah. So with all these jobs, do you consider yourself an employee or a self-employed freelancer?

Interviewee: Yeah, self-employed freelance.

Interviewer: Yeah. So I have a couple of questions about how you see the future of work. Do you worry about things like self-driving cars or machines doing jobs?

Interviewee: Sometimes because robots taking over or computers.

Interviewer: Yeah. Do you see that happening in any of your jobs?

Interviewee: Yes. As far as merchandising, counting inventory, I do.

Interviewer: Yeah. If you were told that they were going to try to automate your Uber Eats job or your Amazon job, would that make you nervous?

Interviewee: Kind of, sort of because that would lead me to find a job.

Interviewer: Yeah. Is that where you think either of these companies might be headed?

Interviewee: I think so.

Interviewer: Yeah. Do they make any statements or suggest that to you or why do you think that?

Interviewee: No, because time is changing and with times changing, companies changed with time. So it's something that you always need to think about. When it do comes down to a company because I went into McDonald's before and I saw that they was trying not to take orders at the cash register. They trying to make you use the machine and that's what made me think about it.

Interviewer: Yeah. Is that how you ended up doing this kind of work now?

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: Yeah. Are there other kinds of jobs that you'd like to do in the future?

Interviewee: Well, my goal was to open me a few group homes and do that. I am in school to get my bachelor's degree right now.

Interviewer: You're really busy. You're doing a lot of stuff.

Interviewee: Yeah. Good thing I don't have kids.

Interviewer: Yeah. So in a in a day, how do you structure having classes and doing all these different jobs?

Interviewee: Well, I dedicate at least two hours for my schoolwork a day. I don't have to do school work every day, but when my assignments are due, I do them before time is up.

Interviewer: Yeah. Do you find that there are hours of the day that are much busier with the delivery things?

Interviewee: Yes, from 12 to five.

Interviewer: Is it a lot of food deliveries or is it just all kinds of different things?

Interviewee: All kinds of different things.

Interviewer: Yeah. Does it get quieter at night?

Interviewee: Yep.

Interviewer: So do you end up trying to work like a nine to five work day or what do you try to do?

Interviewee: Yeah, sometimes. Or I can go later. It just depends on how the day is going.

Interviewer: Do you end up having to work on weekends?

Interviewee: Sometimes, yeah.

Interviewer: How do you decide if you'll work on a weekend or not?

Interviewee: I don't decide. I usually do. I haven't missed any weekends in a while.

Interviewer: Yeah. Do you try to take a different day off during the week?

Interviewee: Yes ma'am. I try to take Wednesdays off.

Interviewer: Yeah. Is that a quieter day?

Interviewee: Yes, it is for me.

Interviewer: For you. Are there any kinds of skills that you needed to develop to do the work that you're doing now?

Interviewee: No ma'am.

Interviewer: No. You felt like you were ready for it, from when you started?

Interviewee: Yes ma'am.

Interviewer: You mentioned the videos, right, that Amazon sent. Do they try to give you tips or advice on projects?

Interviewee: Sometimes they give you tips, but they don't give you a advice unless you get bad ratings, things like that.

Interviewer: Oh, what happens if you get a bad rating?

Interviewee: You all get as many jobs as you were going to get before.

Interviewer: Oh, so it's less advice and it's more of a punishment almost?

Interviewee: Right.

Interviewer: You mentioned a little bit, I'm so interested in these videos. So what all did they cover in the videos from Amazon?

Interviewee: Just what you'll be doing and how does that work and things like that.

Interviewer: Okay, so it's a training video.

Interviewee: Right.

Interviewer: And is there more than-

Interviewee: Tell you exactly how it works.

Interviewer: Is there more than one?

Interviewee: Yeah, it's like five videos.

Interviewer: Are they long? How long are they?

Interviewee: Five minutes, some was 20 minutes, some was 10.

Interviewer: okay. They're pretty short.

Interviewee: Yeah, it wasn't real long.

Interviewer: And do they track that you watch them and that's how you end up getting jobs?

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: Okay, cool.
