# A3 — Amazon delivery worker interview

Interviewer: All right. So, can you tell me a little bit about the jobs that you do?

Interviewee: So as for me, I am a customer service representative. I apply for so many things. Is there like specifics? Because I just got a text message and I don't remember what I applied for. [crosstalk 00:01:39]

Interviewer: For sure. No. Don't worry at all. So, there was a screener asking that was asking about different types of delivery work...

Interviewee: Okay, yeah. I did Grub Hub. I did Postmates. I did Uber Eats. Are those the ones that you're looking for?

Interviewer: Oh don't worry at all. So tell me, which delivery jobs do you do?

Interviewee: I've done Amazon Flex, I've done Postmates, I've done Uber Eats, Grub Hub, Door Dash, and I've done Instacart.

Interviewer: Oh, do you do them all right now? Or it's been different times?

Interviewee: I have all of them open, but I pick which ones I know are best for me at a certain time because of the pay.

Interviewer: Oh interesting. So, I'd love to talk most about your Uber Eats job and your Amazon Flex job. But the other stuff will probably come up in here too.

Interviewee: That's fine.

Interviewer: So how long have you been driving with Uber Eats?

Interviewee: So I have the app on and off so I can do deliveries and do regular trips and so I've been doing that on and off for three or four years.

Interviewer: Wow. And with Amazon Flex, how long have you been doing that?

Interviewee: Amazon Flex I've done that for maybe about a year, I've had the app on for about a year.

Interviewer: And you mentioned between all the different apps, you pick them depending on when you're going to get paid the most? Is that based on what time of day it is? Or how do you decide?

Interviewee: Correct. So the time of day for me with Uber Eats, I can tell after dinner, lunch, and breakfast is kind of slow. Amazon Flex when they have an immediate need. Where they have packages going out in one day, they have a one day order. So I pick those because the pay is like maybe if you do a 4 hour block, it could be like $40. If they have a high demand it goes to $90. So, I wait till I see a high demand so that I can make the most. But it doesn't take me two hours to deliver the packages. It takes about two hours, instead of the four that they give. But I try to get the most out of the pay.

Interviewer: Oh. Cool. Okay. And so with Amazon Flex, do you have to sign up for shifts in advance?

Interviewee: So, it's in blocks. It only gives you a four hour blocks that they have that's available during the day.

Interviewer: I see. And how far in advance can you sign up for that?

Interviewee: You can do it every day. You can take one in the morning and one in the afternoon.

Interviewer: So, is it sort of, I can do it right now or is it like, "Oh, there's one this afternoon, I'll sign up this morning and then do the afternoon shift?"

Interviewee: So, it's more like availability. You can actually be going to the app for the shift that you want but you have to get it first come first served.

Interviewer: I see. Okay.

Interviewee: And with Uber Eats it's just turn it up, right on.

Interviewer: So, how did you find your Uber Eats job?

Interviewee: You said, How did I find it?

Interviewer: Yeah. Exactly.

Interviewee: So, just being a driver. Being a driver, they offered me the opportunity. At first I didn't like the idea because I didn't want to deliver food. But then the opportunity, if I'm a little irritated, I don't have to get people, and I can just literally, one button to turn on in the app. Now, go ahead, my own Uber Eats App, it gets really busy and I make the same amount and it takes me away from taking really long trips.

Interviewer: Okay. Well, that's cool. And so with Amazon Flex, how did you find that job?

Interviewee: My sister-in-law, at the time, was working for Amazon as a driver itself. And she knew that I had a van and she keep telling me about this opportunity but she kept saying "Amazon Prime" and I couldn't find Amazon Prime. And then I got an email saying Amazon Flex and I had went in and just fine.

Interviewer: And that's been a little under a year or how long did you say that was? I'm sorry. I forgot.

Interviewee: About a year ago.

Interviewer: About a year?

Interviewee: It's about a year ago.

Interviewer: Was there some kind of training or introduction when you started the Amazon Flex job?

Interviewee: No.

Interviewer: No?

Interviewee: Just the app. When you go in the app they give you instructions and read. And I went into the parking garage because it told me which load to get. But then for me, with Amazon Flex, they give you what locations you would like to deliver in, but when I got there, it's not organized. It's all over the place and it just sends you all across [city]. That's what I really didn't like about Amazon Flex.

Interviewer: Oh. Okay. So, in theory, you had some control. But then when you had to do it, was like, "This is what you're doing. Too bad."

Interviewee: Right. So, it's whatever they had available in their high demand. Because I'm in the middle of the city, really the heart of [city], maybe 10-15 minutes from downtown. And they send me to the suburbs. That was ridiculous. For two hours. I didn't like that.

Interviewer: And with that, do they pay you based on distance or do they pay you based on time?

Interviewee: No. They just pay you on blocks.

Interviewer: Oh. Okay.

Interviewee: You take a block in high demand. That doesn't pay you time, distance. No. No reimbursement.

Interviewer: So, that's different than the Uber Eats stuff then?

Interviewee: Yeah. Uber Eats pays time and distance. But then, for me, Uber Eats is just you get paid unless they mess up an order and you have to go back to the restaurant, you don't get paid any additional. So I didn't like that either.

Interviewer: Oh. That's annoying.

Interviewee: So I never went back. (laughs)

Interviewer: So when there is an issue like that or there is some kind of issue, do you have a manager, in either job, that you can talk to?

Interviewee: Well, no. For me, it was calling Customer Support. Most of the time they just issued an apology and there was no time compensation or anything. You know, just reporting an issue.

Interviewer: Yeah. So it's kind of a "Sorry to hear that." (laughs) Good luck.

Interviewee: Right. Right. Exactly.

Interviewer: And when something goes wrong with Amazon, with an Amazon Flex order, is there somebody that you can talk to?

Interviewee: You go in and they have supervisors all over the place in Amazon Flex. I never had a problem, even if once I was finished with my load and I had a few packages that was unable to be delivered, I could just return them back in. I really never had a problem with Amazon Flex, just the distance they were trying to send you in.

Interviewer: Yeah. Oh, but you did have some you reported to? Was it like, "This is your person for the day. Or for the block?" Kind of thing?

Interviewee: No. I didn't report in. We just got one in, they gave us the packages, and that was it. So, if I needed anything, there were in-store managers that I could talk to but no one designated specifically.

Interviewer: Oh. Okay. So the difference was: with Uber Eats you have to call into some big customer service office and with Amazon Prime you saw a person or there were people wandering around.

Interviewee: With that, I could also, if I had a problem, I could go into the app and an immediate chat box, if I had an immediate issue with an order. Even when I'm on delivery, if I had a problem I could immediately contact them and they would help me.

Interviewer: Okay cool. Did you have to sign some kind of contract when you started with Amazon Flex?

Interviewee: I believe I did sign, I do remember signing a contract. Yeah.

Interviewer: Was it through the app and stuff?

Interviewee: Everything was through the app. Yes

Interviewer: Oh, okay so it's kind of like "okay read this and click okay" kind of.

Interviewee: Yep

Interviewer: Do you remember anything it said in the contract?

Interviewee: I don't. I don't know if I read the contract to be honest.

Interviewer: No that's okay.

Interviewee: I'm a mom of three kids and an opportunity for then to sell for me that was an amazing while I can work on my own and so I just jumped at the chance.

Interviewer: Yeah, yeah. Were there any kinds of skills you needed to develop to do the Amazon Flex job?

Interviewee: No.

Interviewer: No. Is there any kind of data that they have you record when you are doing jobs?

Interviewee: No.

Interviewer: No.

Interviewee: Well sometimes if it was undelivered and I couldn't get into the building they would want me to take a picture of where I would leave the packages. Sometimes, that was only in certain locations if I had a hard time delivering and most of the time if I couldn't I wouldn't just leave someone's package sitting on the front stoop because anybody could just swoop right on passed. They wanted us to take pictures of where we dropped off the location so that the customer would be able to know where the package was if we were trying to hide it.

Interviewer: Oh, okay. So it was more of when it was a concealed delivery.

Interviewee: Yes. Right, pretty much.

Interviewer: And then do they also have you do a checklist where it is like I picked it up at this time, I dropped it off at this time. Anything like that?

Interviewee: No, because when you are in the app it puts you on the destination, it gives you what you need to be delivering first. So most of the time when I go in I try to put the order in the car so I can know what is next and what's next. But then they just give you if I'm at this location, the address, I scan it and complete it. I have to scan the package first then put it on the porch. If I need to take a picture, I take a picture and then I will complete the trip and then go on. Or if I need to call, when they say call when you get here and I can't someone the app will help me send a text message or something like that. Other than that, No.

Interviewer: Yeah. And when you say scan stuff, can you do it from your phone or do you have a separate piece of equipment?

Interviewee: I did it from my phone.

Interviewer: Oh, cool. So is it just a picture or like a code thing.

Interviewee: You know a scan, it's like a bar code. Instead of taking a picture my phone would scan it itself. The camera it will scan it and go right in by itself.

Interviewer: Oh cool, okay. So is there any other equipment that you end up needing to use for this job? It sounds like it's your phone and your car.

Interviewee: No, my phone did everything, yeah.

Interviewer: That's cool. So you mentioned that you have a couple different jobs. How do you structure your week between different jobs?

Interviewee: For me I try to work when my kids are in school because their dad is incarcerated right now unfortunately. So I have work around their schedule. That's what I am doing now. Most of the time my kids, they didn't mind on the weekends, they like to do Amazon Flex so I would let them ride with me and so they would find a package for me that I would have to deliver it made it a little easier for me. I just kind of work with their schedule.

Interviewer: Okay.

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: How many hours a week do you end up trying to work?

Interviewee: I probably get in at least 25. At the most I would try to do 30 if I push a weekend day in it. I try to work at least while they are at school.

Interviewer: Yeah. And do you try to take weekends off?

Interviewee: I'm sorry.

Interviewer: No, that's okay (laughs). Do you also try to take weekends off?

Interviewee: Most of the time, yeah. I get a little selfish but you know it gets busy, you know people are home, people are sometimes lazy like me unfortunately. Those are high demand times too so I try to give myself a break most of the time. But if I go out it will in the morning or lunch time for weekends.

Interviewer: Yeah. Do you know about how much you get paid an hour with Uber Eats?

Interviewee: So for me, I could go out and be out for about 5 hours and make at least one hundred dollars. It varies, it depends on how many trips I get in and the amount of orders. So I wouldn't put it at twelve dollars, I would put it at about twelve [inaudible 00:13:04]

Interviewer: Okay. Do you have, with the time you are working, do you try to have a financial goal for the day or for the week that you are trying to meet?

Interviewee: Well everyday I will try my best to make at least one hundred dollars a day.

Interviewer: Okay.

Interviewee: Hold on just a second I'm sorry.

Interviewer: Sure, sure.

Interviewee: Okay, I'm sorry because he just slapped this, my God, this is a place of business this just wasn't productive, I'm sorry.

Interviewer: (Laughs) Don't worry at all. Has anything changed for you since you started working for Amazon Flex?

Interviewee: No. No, I'm still on a struggle. I literally feel like it's a waste of time because sometimes blocks go fast. The pay, they send you away too far, I don't feel like the compensation is enough for me to do it.

Interviewer: Yeah. Has anything changed with Uber Eats since you first started working for them?

Interviewee: Uber Eats, no, it's the same. Just slave and driving. You know for me, I'm at a McDonald's, it's [inaudible 00:14:13] McDonald's line so long and wait, especially after hours. No, they suck.

Interviewer: Yeah. Yeah.

Interviewee: I swear I like Grub Hub and Postmates. Grub Hub is the most high platform that I've ever worked for, and that's only because of the tips.

Interviewer: Oh yeah, so it's better there?

Interviewee: Say that again, I'm sorry.

Interviewer: I was asking, so it's better there?

Interviewee: Yes, it's amazing. I love Grub Hub.

Interviewer: Oh that's great, okay. So is that the one you end up doing the most?

Interviewee: Yeah. The tips are you know, you get paid initially more than the pay. I work the downtown area for Grub Hub and anytime of day any time the weather is changed, if it's cold or if it's too hot, if it gets a little rain the orders come in.

Interviewer: So you pray for bad weather. Or like please let it be terrible.

Interviewee: I'm telling you I hate it but it makes me money. I can make one hundred dollars in less than two hours literally. Because I get a lot of big orders too especially lunch time. They compensate, they definitely show their appreciation.

Interviewer: Oh that's good. Okay

Interviewee: Uber Eats, you would regularly tip your delivery person. That's why I really didn't like Uber Eats because I never got tipped and I'm only make three or four dollars each trip and it was just me sitting at McDonald's for thirty minutes on top of the drive. It was ridiculous too.

Interviewer: Yeah, I didn't realize it was so bad. That's not good.

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: With either company, between Amazon and Uber Eats, have you ever had to test any new software for them?

Interviewee: No.

Interviewer: No. But their app updates and stuff, it just is.

Interviewee: They just put you right on. They give you a little preview of what you should do and how to do it but not really the fundamentals of how the app works. They just put you right on. They should give a brief class maybe orientation to show you how to move through the stuff but they don't and they just put you right on and expect you to know everything. In the beginning it wasn't easy trying to figure it out, but eventually I got the hang of things. There is no training.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. How do these jobs compare to other work you've done before?

Interviewee: For me it's more laid back it's more my demand, but for me, I need more structure, more stability. It's easy for me to stay at home. In order for me to go to a regular 9-5. So that's the only thing that was easy and convenient for me because the girls are in school but I need more structure, a more stable paycheck instead of just I could go out and not make maybe thirty dollars within a couple hours and makes me feel like I just waste gas.

Interviewer: Yeah. Yeah. Between all these jobs do you think of yourself as an employee of Amazon or an employee of Uber? Do you think of yourself as someone who is self employed and you are running a delivery business? Are you a freelancer?

Interviewee: No, I felt like an employee but I just didn't feel like I got the employee benefits. I never felt like an independent contractor. [inaudible 00:17:22] If I would have thought about it that way, but it didn't feel like it. I felt like I was working for Uber and Amazon. Not as a private contractor. I wasn't making the money, that if I were a private contractor should be benefiting, but I wasn't.

Interviewer: Yeah. Yeah. Do you expect to be doing, you mentioned that there are some that you like better, Do you expect to be doing the jobs that you like better for a couple years?

Interviewee: Well to be honest, I need some more stability and more assurances. My girls are getting bigger now and my bills are getting higher and higher and getting paid every day was fine when I needed it but I need a bigger paycheck. I need more money and these jobs here doesn't offer that.

Interviewer: Yeah. So now I have a couple questions about the future of work and machines and stuff. Do you worry about things like self driving cars?

Interviewee: No, I don't care about that. I definitely wouldn't ride in one. No.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: That's their prerogative. I don't think that's coming anytime soon so I don't worry about that at all.

Interviewer: If Uber said we are going to try to use some self driving cars would that make you nervous or would you be interested in seeing what happens?

Interviewee: I'm in between on that. I'm not here or there, I just think that safety of people and those self driving cars aren't really reliable, I don't think it's safe, I don't think it's a good idea.

Interviewer: Okay. Yeah. Is that where you think companies like Uber do you think they are going to try to use some self driving cars or that kind of technology?

Interviewee: I'm sorry.

Interviewer: Could you imagine Uber trying to use self driving cars or some kind of similar technology?

Interviewee: It's so amazing to me cause technology is everything right now and as a kid, you know, watching the Jetson's growing up a lot of those things are coming to pass. It's amazing to see that those things are happening. I would never imagine Face Time, we all as a kid having a face to face picture video call with someone. So things are changing and I'm adapting to change I'm accepting it. I mean, I think it's an amazing opportunity but whatever floats your boats. For me you know.

Interviewer: Yeah, yeah, for sure.
