# A4 — Amazon delivery worker interview

Interviewer: Great. So, can you tell me a little bit about the delivery work that you do? What kinds of jobs do you have?

Interviewee: I do two things. I do Uber Eats where I'm delivering food and then I work with Amazon delivering packages and food.

Interviewer: Okay, because Amazon has both Flex and Restaurants, right? Is that what it's called?

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: Okay. How did you find your Uber Eats job?

Interviewee: I actually had seen an ad for it and I think it was on Craigslist, of all things.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: So, I applied and of course, they took me because I've got lots of years of driving experience. I was a cab driver. I was a truck driver. I was a county car driver. I've got lots of experience with the driver. I'm up at the retirement years now, so this is just a supplemental type thing.

Interviewer: Oh, I see. How did you find the Amazon Flex job?

Interviewee: That was when I was doing some deliveries with Uber Eats, I ran into a fellow driver out there and they told me about it, so I jumped over to their website and applied.

Interviewer: Oh, great. So, how long have you been working with Uber Eats?

Interviewee: Uber Eats, it's been about I'm rough guessing about two and a half to three years.

Interviewer: Yeah, and with Amazon Flex? How long have you been there?

Interviewee: Amazon Flex is about a year, year and a half.

Interviewer: Okay, and was the transition into the Amazon Restaurant part separate application?

Interviewee: It was pretty easy. It was just signing up for a block. They do theirs in blocks. The delivery part is you sign up for a block, you go pick up the packages. The Restaurant part, you sign up for a block, you sit in an area, and then they basically beep you on the phone just like with Uber Eats.

Interviewer: Yeah. Is it a separate app for the Restaurants and Amazon Flex?

Interviewee: No, it's still the same thing.

Interviewer: Okay, and is it an app for Amazon Flex? Is that what you sign up through?

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: Okay.

Interviewee: The more you sign up at their website and then you download the driver's app.

Interviewer: And the app gives you your schedule and where you're driving and stuff?

Interviewee: Yeah. You sign up for your blocks there and then you just go online for your blocks.

Interviewer: Okay, so with Uber Eats, was there some kind of training process when you started the job?

Interviewee: No. They just give you the criteria, I mean, to have a vehicle, you have to prove that you have insurance, that you're licensed to drive. They did do a background check to make sure you weren't some kind of somebody with a criminal record or active warrants or anything like that. Other than that, they deal with their customers all the time.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: So, you do have to pass a background check. Other than that, there's no training for the position. As long as you pass their background check and prove that you have a driver's license and insurance, then you're allowed to drive for Uber Eats.

Interviewer: And is it the same for Amazon Flex? What was that process like?

Interviewee: It is the same thing. They do the background checks and as long as you are a licensed and insured driver and you have a background check, they will put you to work.

Interviewer: And do they assign you to a specific warehouse or like a region of warehouses?

Interviewee: It is based off where you're at. Like in my town, there's a hub located in [city], little bit [different state] obviously, I go all the way up to [city] to pick up stuff or lift food out of a hub down in [different state].

Interviewer: Yeah. So, with your Amazon Flex job, do you have a specific manager or someone that you talk to when something goes wrong?

Interviewee: No. You just call in to a customer service thing. That's not necessarily in the same city. It's just like if you're calling Amazon purchase, like when you're online at Amazon.com, and it's the same kind of customer service center. You call in, the same goes for drivers.

Interviewer: Oh, okay. If you're there to pick up a package at the warehouse, is it a different kind of person who manages what they're giving you for their car or what is that process like to pick up packages?

Interviewee: Basically, what they do is you're given a block of deliveries that it's already packaged into a tote or something, so you pull in, you pick up several packages for a specific area, they give you the list electronically and then you go out and you just follow around and you're set for each drop off.

Interviewer: Yeah. While you're going through that, is there anything that you have to record in the app or any kind of data that you put in?

Interviewee: Usually, what you do is when you make a drop and there's nobody there, you take a picture of the package on the porch and a picture of the address reflecting that you did make the drop. That way, if there's any questions, there's a photograph as proof that the package was delivered.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: Of course, the app, the GPS shows that you were at the address.

Interviewer: Yeah. Is it a similar process for Uber Eats?

Interviewee: Yeah. But I mean with Uber Eats, you're actually delivering to the customer, so.

Interviewer: Yeah, so I guess there's a face to face moment instead of the picture.

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: Yeah. Are there any kinds of skills you had to develop to do this type of work?

Interviewee: Not really. I mean, you're not a people person, you're an antisocial, not the job for you but there's no specific skills you need to learn. Through the app, they use GPS and it's like a street map program in their app to direct you around, so if you can watch your phone and take directions, I have a program like Waves or Map that's special that you have to learn.

Interviewer: Yeah. How do you end up structuring your week between these different jobs?

Interviewee: I don't really structure anything. I mean, I just get to decide when you want to work or not. It's that simple. With most of them, with Uber Eats, you decide when you want to work and when you want to work, you sign in and you can start [inaudible 00:08:48]. Pick up, take it to the customer. With Amazon, you have to sign up for blocks and then once you signed up for a block, you have to be online to get that order or you have to go pick up the shipment to be delivered. That one's a little bit different because you're actually signing up for blocks, not just the app locating for doing the food delivery or you have to go to the hub to pick up the packages for delivery to get them out.

Interviewer: Yeah. So, do you try to work eight hours a day? How many hours do you try to work a day?

Interviewee: Being more of a retired person, I just do whatever is needed to supplement income for my house.

Interviewer: Okay. So, does it vary how much you're trying to earn per week?

Interviewee: It fluctuates.

Interviewer: Yeah. Do you know about how much you make for an hour of working at Amazon Flex?

Interviewee: There's no hourly. It's on a per delivery type thing. It could be a block, I could make $50. I could make $30. I could make $100. It depends on how many that are done.

Interviewer: Oh, you mean how many deliveries there are in that time?

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: Oh, I see.

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: So, it doesn't matter necessarily how big the delivery is. It just is how many there are in that time.

Interviewee: Correct.

Interviewer: Okay, got it. With Uber Eats, do you know about how much you'd make in an hour?

Interviewee: You could make $18, $20 an hour on a busy day. Like I said, that one people order food and as soon as you pick up and drop off, you know what you made for that run. As long as you're online working, and hustling, you can do three, four deliveries per hour in an average of $5 to $7 a delivery, it adds up.

Interviewer: Yeah. Do you prefer to do one type of job versus another?

Interviewee: I kind of prefer the Uber Eats because that is easier to sign in when I'm ready to work, sign out when I'm ready to stop.

Interviewer: Yeah. So, when do you decide to do, is it like if you have a good block then you sign up for Amazon, or how do you decide between-

Interviewee: Yeah, it just depends on how I'm feeling and it also depends on I prefer the block over chasing down a delivery of packages.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. Has anything changed since you started working for Amazon?

Interviewee: My health has gone down, so I don't do any deliveries.

Interviewer: Yeah. Have they asked you to do more deliveries within the same amount of time? Has anything like that changed?

Interviewee: No.

Interviewer: No.

Interviewee: No.

Interviewer: Yeah. With Uber Eats, has anything changed since you started working for them?

Interviewee: No.

Interviewer: No.

Interviewee: Nope.

Interviewer: Do either company have you test new software on the app?

Interviewee: No.

Interviewer: No. How did these two jobs compare to other work that you've done before?

Interviewee: Before I retired, [inaudible 00:12:30], so it's a big difference.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: In what I was doing and then as I got out of computer tech and started doing driving jobs, and then retired and did this [inaudible 00:12:53].

Interviewer: Yeah. So, with these jobs, do you think of yourself as someone who's self employed? Do you think of yourself as a freelancer or an employee of the company? How do you think of yourself?

Interviewee: It'd be more employee.

Interviewer: Yeah. Do you think you'll still be doing this kind of work in a couple years?

Interviewee: What was that?

Interviewer: Do you think you'll still be doing this kind of work in a couple years?

Interviewee: I probably not. Only for a couple years.

Interviewer: Yeah. So, now I have a couple questions about the future of work. So, do you worry about things like self driving cars?

Interviewee: Not really.

Interviewer: Yeah. If Uber told you that they were going to try to use self driving cars in their Uber Eats fleet, would that make you nervous or would you be interested in what was happening?

Interviewee: I grew up around electronics, stuff like that, so I'd actually be interested because if you think about it, electronic cars, self driving cars would eliminate the human error, accidents.

Interviewer: Yeah. Yeah. Could you imagine Uber and Amazon and folks like this doing that? Does it seem like something that's coming?

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:14:27]. They utilize the drivers versus the vehicles for that.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: If they were to do it, then it would be the entire employees because the runner as opposed to the contractor [inaudible 00:14:51].
