# A5 — Amazon delivery worker interview

Interviewer: All right. So I'd love to hear about how you started working at Amazon. How did you find the job?

Interviewee: Well so back in 2015, I was living in [city] after leaving a bad marriage and career in [different city] and I was mostly interested in film and video, multimedia, and for whatever reason the Amazon job lot of categories so I applied thinking that would be more of a computer job and turned out that it was for a sort center which was directly across the street.

Interviewee: So working at the sort center, we worked a [inaudible 00:03:08] and stuff like that. There were other [inaudible 00:03:21] we learned but there was nothing really requiring college education or anything like that. So after about a year I transferred to fulfillment center and when I started in [inaudible 00:03:43] it was a lot more lonely I think [inaudible 00:03:46]. So I transferred to outbound ship dock, that was a little more social and the general environment was a lot more negative than I needed. There were very different policies from building to building beside the fact that they were about three to four hundred feet away from each other. Different types of managerial styles. [inaudible 00:04:22].

Interviewee: For about four days, I actually worked for the delivery service which was in, not [city], but [inaudible 00:04:37] and the reason it was only four days is because I had started in the middle of winter and during one deliver when I was out on my own, I opened up the door, slipped on some ice and [inaudible 00:04:55] and I slammed my shoulder into the ground so I thought I was going to get over it in one or two days, but it turned out to be like six weeks of [inaudible 00:04:59] my shoulder because nobody had told me about [inaudible 00:05:14] snow cleats during winter. [inaudible 00:05:22].

Interviewee: Yeah, that was about how I got involved.

Interviewer: Yeah, yeah, exactly.

Interviewer: So you had a couple different jobs with them, right? That's kind of how you describe it. Sounded like there were three separate chapters of working there.

Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, sure. There were, I could call it three chapters. I would say that the thing with chapters is definitely some chapters because there are so many different areas to work and you get moved around so much every day. Yeah, there is a lot of different [inaudible 00:06:06].

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewer: Were you primarily working for Amazon during that time or did you have other jobs that you were also juggling?

Interviewee: Well, yeah, I would say that I had always been [inaudible 00:06:39] since like 2005 and so I had [inaudible 00:06:44] for that. I also [inaudible 00:06:44] and design shirts for merch for Amazon, hired designers to do that, at least to come up with new ideas and also [inaudible 00:06:55] insurance.

Interviewee: So, yeah, it was a good, I mean, the way the jobs were ... hold on.

Interviewer: Sure.

Interviewee: Okay. [inaudible 00:07:18].

Interviewer: Yes.

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:07:28].

Interviewee: So, what was I saying again?

Interviewer: You were telling me that there were so many different tasks within each of these kind of job rolls that you had.

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:07:42].

Interviewer: Maybe you were starting to say something about management maybe, different managers that you had.

Interviewee: Yeah, [inaudible 00:07:57].

Interviewer: Yeah, okay.

Interviewer: So, how long were you there in total? How long were you working for Amazon in total?

Interviewee: Probably really really close to four years.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewer: Did you have control over your hours or who determined what hours you'd be there?

Interviewee: No I controlled them. [inaudible 00:08:28]. So yeah, [inaudible 00:08:32].

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: Because this is working from your house part-time [inaudible 00:08:43] for essentially half a week, typically 4 days out of the week, technically 3.5 [inaudible 00:08:49].

Interviewer: Oh yeah, I was asking, did you have any say in your hours or who determined what hours you'd be working during the week?

Interviewee: So, it was different for each building. So for the sorting center the way it worked was, you signed up for a shift and these shifts would be as committed for four hours, but they say we can select [inaudible 00:09:25] essentially a minimum of a shift from 3 hours and the maximum would be 5 hours.

Interviewee: So, three hours [inaudible 00:09:25] minutes [inaudible 00:09:25] or an hour and fifty seven minutes [inaudible 00:09:25].

Interviewee: Usually the managers called [inaudible 00:09:25].

Interviewee: They do give you a certain amount of [inaudible 00:09:25] so you could choose not to come in if you wanted to, you didn't have to tell anybody, they preferred if you did but they [inaudible 00:10:38].

Interviewee: So you get [inaudible 00:10:48].

Interviewee: But the sorting center you committed to day or night and that's just the way [inaudible 00:10:59] works. There are others [inaudible 00:11:02] but we had [inaudible 00:11:05] at night. There are others around the country that have three, eight hour shifts during the day and the way our shifts worked it was kind of like, it was called a waterfall system. It would be Monday to Thursday, Tuesday to Friday, Wednesday to Saturday, etc, etc.

Interviewee: But at other facilities the way they were doing it was you were either front half or back half.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: So it was like you were either Sunday to Wednesday or you were what they called reduced time or an RT shift, Thursday to Saturday.

Interviewer: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

Interviewee: So, you would essentially not interact at all with anybody from, they just never saw each other. So, with the waterfall system you were guaranteed to at least see someone at least once from the department within a typical week, but the way they're are setting up new facilities is that they'll make sure that they don't interact, that they don't see each other at all.

Interviewer: Hmm.

Interviewee: With reduced time they get three twelve hour days, yeah, those are like thirty six hours. So yeah, those thirty six hour [inaudible 00:12:29].

Interviewer: Hmm.

Interviewee: Some people prefer that. [inaudible 00:12:35]. Thing that I found disturbing is that, despite the fact that I have very casual side-gigs, there were definitely people who I worked with that had other full time jobs. So a woman that I worked with on the dock had another full time job at a gas station, like a [GAS STATION] or something like that. So there would be days when she would get up at like some ungodly hour in the morning and then just work straight until the Amazon shift was done, which for us because we were nights was 5am. Yeah, 5am, because six thirty to five. Yeah, so it was 5am. So she worked essentially the entire day and there are other people that had other jobs which were a little more understanding of their schedule so there was another guy that maybe worked at a restaurant that he said that he scheduled the restaurant hours around his hours.

Interviewee: So he took, like ... yeah, they don't pay [inaudible 00:14:02] wage increase they took away enough to make it not do anything but it looked better on paper.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: So a lot of people are on Government assistance or they just have to get another job, another like part time or full time job.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewer: When you were working, not in the delivery side of it, did you end up interacting with a lot of delivery folks?

Interviewee: I would say that we did talk to the ... I mean if you count, well ... I wouldn't really count the drivers so much as delivery, I mean I guess they did deliver to the delivery, to the ultimate, what they call like, I guess the last mile facilities, but I don't recall having too much interaction with the associates that were part of the [name] program. Now, we did have an application called [inaudible 00:15:22] Work Up Tool, where we could see if a particular package was scanned, what time it was scanned and when the first delivery attempt was and if it was successful. So we could track that kind of thing and that would inform us if it needed to be redone. So if we found something that was completely chewed up by the conveyor, it was like, seven days late, we found that it had never been redone by the pack department, who usually track these types of things. We can look and see what was actually delivered to the person [inaudible 00:16:08].

Interviewee: On that level yeah, but really had no direct interaction with delivery people per se.

Interviewer: Yeah. When you were working in the delivery part, were you doing the last mile work or were you doing this sort of in-between that you just described?

Interviewee: It was, yeah, it was the last mile.

Interviewee: So yeah, [inaudible 00:16:43] because there were warehouse associates who did the sorting and I was the one doing the van deliveries and these things that they call a rabbit device. It's kind of a smart device but its also fairly boring. It makes you scan everything and it won't actually let you proceed with a delivery unless it detects that you are close to the address.

Interviewer: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

Interviewee: So you could be close but if the GPS is screwing up it will not let you proceed, which is really stupid, because sometimes customers would come way out to the street to get there stuff and I'd end up having to walk back to their house with them because the device wouldn't let me do anything.

Interviewer: I see.

Interviewer: That sounds like its different than, like the Amazon Flex folks that I've been talking to said that what they have is an app on their phone, is this a bigger piece of equipment?

Interviewee: Okay, so essentially the way it works is the Amazon Flex app that you have on your phone and the Android phone that they give to the AMZL drivers, they essentially use the same app, its just that with Flex, they expect the drivers to use their own everything. So they use their own vehicle, they use their own phone, they use everything, they're not even insured under Amazon, everything is on them.

Interviewee: But yes, its the same, you log into the same app, it is called Amazon Flex, they just call the device a Rabbit. I don't know why, [inaudible 00:18:44] smart phone but, that's just what they call it. Its using the Flex App, so yes.

Interviewer: Oh, I see. Okay.

Interviewer: So then, when you were driving the last mile delivery work, where you a full time employee of Amazon or was it this kind of freelance roll that Flex seems to be?

Interviewee: No. No, so the drivers were sub-contractors. So I was a sub-contractor, and then the company that I worked for, which was called [Small company name], was a contractor and they were [inaudible 00:19:27] my [inaudible 00:19:28] facility there were different contractors, there was one called like, [small company name], another one called, [Small company name], [inaudible 00:19:42] Now, and some other ones. In different delivery stations throughout the country they have some of the same contractors [inaudible 00:19:57] totally different, just regionalized to certain areas, but yeah they are totally independent contractors.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewer: Did you know that you would have a different employer when you switched from working in the fulfillment into delivery?

Interviewee: Well, no. Its very, its odd, because its like, you're sort of, you're recognized by Amazon as being part of the system, but you're still not considered and employee. So its kind of like, you can ...

Interviewee: There is an internal tool they have called phone tool were you can look up any employee and when you become a driver as apposed to being in the warehouse, [inaudible 00:21:03] blue badge, because your badge is blue, you become a yellow badge and you're fully lookup able, if that's a word, in the phone tool, it shows exactly who your manager is, exactly where you work, exactly what your position is, delivery associate, but they still don't consider you an actual Amazon employee.

Interviewee: Another part of that is that they were for a while using U-Haul and Enterprise trucks or vans to transport stuff, but now they are trying to switch everybody over to Amazon branded things.

Interviewer: Oh I see.

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:21:49]. Yeah, so its more ...

Interviewee: Yeah, well I should say [inaudible 00:21:53] actually, because I believe the Amazon Flex people do directly work for Amazon, but they ... with this its like Amazon still wants to have knowledge and control over the persons employment and what their status is, which is, I don't know how I feel about that.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: There are definitely positions in the fulfillment center like facilities was when [inaudible 00:22:29] until [location] [inaudible 00:22:34] [same location] facilities and so they would do, get the badges for [same location] contractor and then the contractors would walk around the building.

Interviewee: So, yeah, them and there were other [inaudible 00:22:52] that were sub-contractors, but they were all within the system and Amazon knows who everyone is and they weren't off the record or whatever but they weren't considered official official Amazon employees.

Interviewer: Yeah, yeah.

Interviewer: Did you have one specific manager in the fulfillment center?

Interviewee: Oh god. So they switch managers a lot and they even brought the [inaudible 00:23:29] and the [inaudible 00:23:29] where Senior Ops said, you know we've gotten a lot of concern about, we're switching managers so quickly but you know we're going to continue doing it because these managers need to get exposure to different departments. So, I think, yeah, with pick I had one manager, with the dock I had, I want to say like five, six maybe. With the dock they would try to have three managers just there at ... not all at the same time, but they would try to have three dock managers as dock managers, generally because the front half of the week, Sunday, basically through Wednesday, Thursday was a lot heavier volume, they'd get two managers to be there then and then because the back half of the week was lighter and that was because some of the UPS sorts would not go out on Friday and Saturday because they didn't do weekend delivery in some cities, so they only had the one manager.

Interviewee: So I would say that, as far as direct reports, I was direct report to like six different people over the course of the three years that I was there, but I would say there were probably in the realm of like fifteen, sixteen, seventeen different managers that actually had some sort of authority over me, throughout my entire time there.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: Which was [inaudible 00:25:29] because you have to go and prove that you know all these different areas of the [inaudible 00:25:44]. So, yeah.

Interviewer: And with the delivery job, did you still have, did you have one manager or was it also very transient?

Interviewee: So the delivery job I think had dispatchers and from what I recall there were three for the [small company who hired interviewee as subcontractor], so I know that one of them actually worked six days a week which was insanity, and the other two worked more like the front half and the back half.

Interviewer: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

Interviewee: So, one would work Sunday to Wednesday and the other one would work Wednesday to Saturday and then the third guy would work every day except Wednesday, which was not [inaudible 00:26:29].

Interviewee: So they weren't referred to as managers but we sort of looked to them as managers because they were experts at dispatch.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: That's all that the dispatchers do.

Interviewee: They're basically looked at like they're all the same tier or level.

Interviewer: Yeah, and you mentioned when we started talking that you had to sign an NDA. Was that consistent for all of the jobs? Was it just like a blanket NDA?

Interviewee: Yeah, so when I started at the sorting center, the original orientation, signed an NDA and then because the transfer to the FD was internal they didn't make you go through all that again, they just assumed that it applied and then the delivery stuff, you did have to sign another one because you were through a different company.

Interviewer: Do you know, was it just like a blanket, don't talk about anything that you see here? Or were there things in particular you think they were worried about?

Interviewee: I did show this to my mother at one point and she said this is one of the strictest documents I've ever read. I didn't really look through it extensively, but they essentially say do not talk about or post or discuss any business we're doing, anything we're working on, any project, any affiliations, any rumors, it was very strict.

Interviewer: Yeah. Did that make you nervous? Do you remember having any reaction to it?

Interviewee: Well, we had some Facebook groups that we were members of were people would openly discuss stuff and I'm sure there were a lot of things that we talked about on there that were not seen as good, but they were closed groups. I think that once you're in it, its a very ... I mean my particular site was very disorganized and [inaudible 00:29:25] like that ... I don't know, I don't think its really within HRs general routine, like looking through for anything like that.

Interviewer: Yeah and were the Facebook groups started by employees and just maintained by other employees?

Interviewee: Yeah, so we had ... I was in a Facebook group for the, just the [inaudible 00:30:01] and then there was one that was made for anyone who worked in the [city] area and then there was one that was called Amazon [inaudible 00:30:10] which was a lot of people from a lot of different, like there were people from delivery stations and client pantry and [inaudible 00:30:23] and then there was like people from everywhere around the country in that group.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: Did they have you record any kind of data between your different jobs of things you were doing?

Interviewee: Me personally or ... ?

Interviewer: Yeah, you personally, did you have to record anything?

Interviewee: Did I have to record anything? I don't think constantly I had to record anything, but I was fairly aware that everything I was doing was being tracked and recorded.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: Because, at every step in the process they want to know who was doing it and at what time and what exactly they did. It would be hard to give a specific example because it probably happened every day.

Interviewee: They did do what they call labor tracking. You talk to anybody about that?

Interviewer: No nobody has yet.

Interviewee: Okay. Well, when it first started at the source center, we were supposed to labor track ourselves, so it was kind of like, what are you doing? Are you doing sort slide or [inaudible 00:32:05] or whatever and you would start [Amazon protocol] and you would just labor track into that, if you were scanning it would automatically labor track you.

Interviewee: Then, with the FC, the PAs who were Process Assistants, they were right under manager, required to do the labor tracking for you. So, even if you were logged into a computer or you were scanning or whatever, they would labor track and this essentially meant they would take your ID, there was a form that they had of our ID, and scan it into a QR code that was just something like, I don't know, slash PG or water spiders or something like that. So, if they switched you up during the shifts, which they did a lot. Both the PAs and the managers did that, the PA had to stay on top of where they were sending you, so they would labor track you into that area.

Interviewee: Part of the reason they did that was because it accounted for metrics for the site. The sites compete against each other, I don't know why, there's no real incentives to do so, to do that. Part of that method is how accurate the labor tracking is. So if there is somebody who is clocked in but isn't labor tracked for the entire day, then the percentage for that day goes down and it can hurt the entire site.

Interviewee: So, yeah.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: It does happen and it has happened, but ... I know why they do it, they don't want people just ... like, what people used to do in the sorting facility, like two hours into their shift they'd go down, not everybody, but like three four people would just go and sit in the bathroom for like several hours to get a break and then leave when they called next shift.

Interviewee: So they want to know exactly what you're doing and exactly where you are, but from what I saw it didn't matter so much what you were labor tracking, just as long you were labor tracked.

Interviewer: Hmm. Okay.

Interviewer: Was there a big difference in how much you were paid per hour in each of these jobs?

Interviewee: When starting off, yes there was, before they went to the uniform system. So, I started off at the fulfillment center as a seasonal employee, which got $11.50 an hour and then when I, four months later, when I became a permanent that increased to $12.50.

Interviewee: There was a night crew ... I was on night shifts but there wasn't like late night shifts. When the night crew came in, which was, their time schedule was like, 11pm to like 3am, they would get an extra 50 cents just for nights and if their schedule was encompassing both weekend days, Saturday and Sunday, they would get another 50 cents. So, the highest you could be paid in the sort center, was $13.50.

Interviewee: Also, if they signed up for a shift, like another shift, during the day, they would get the same amount.

Interviewee: So, when I went to the fulfillment center they started at $12 per hour, so that was a little less. Everyone there was, started off as permanent, but what they did was, they had a system called a step program or a graduated, incremental raise program, which would raise you by like a quarter every six months. So, because I already put a year into it, I actually started at like $12.50 or something like that. So the way they had it originally worked, [inaudible 00:37:29] is that you would get the incremental raises for three years. [inaudible 00:37:40].

Interviewee: So, if you look at that [inaudible 00:37:45], but they also, every August or so, they would get together, there would be this committee that would get together, I guess in [different city], and they would look at each fulfillment center and they would look at comparable areas and what they paid and look at the different positions, like tier 1, [inaudible 00:38:21] associate and tier 3, production assistant position and look at what they ... Yeah, [inaudible 00:38:30] that's what the rates were and so some years they would increase the base pay from $12 to you know whatever and some years they would keep it.

Interviewer: Hmm.

Interviewee: So I think that right before the raise to $15 for everybody, they had to raise the base to $12.75, so the most you could make was $14.25 or something. Now, you could also make a night differential. So the people who had a schedule that were just nights were making an 50 cents and then the people who were both nights and both weekend days would get and extra dollar. So I was at that point making the maximum that you could and then they changed it.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: [crosstalk 00:39:27].

Interviewer: Besides the financial changes that you described in terms of pay. Were there any other big changes that happened while you were working there?

Interviewee: In terms of, like?

Interviewer: I guess really anything. Were there any, kind of, in terms of the management structure, were there any type of technological differences, were they rolling out any new programs?

Interviewee: Yeah, I mean I could talk about that stuff.

Interviewee: Well, yeah, lets look at that.

Interviewee: Things changed at that site, like a lot. I remember when they installed a box maker or [inaudible 00:40:23]. Originally this was, just one. So what they would do is they would have this machine put together the box, put a blue sticker on it and then the packer would just grab it off the line and [inaudible 00:40:48] and put it back on the line and there would be an automatic taper that would tape it with, not scotch tape, but clear packing tape as opposed to the tape they use now, that tape that says Prime all over it or whatever. I just call it denim tape because that was the name of the company that manufactured it, was Denim.

Interviewee: But anyway, they moved from that to A3s and the reason they increased the box size on that was because they wanted to be able to ship hazmat, so like with ion and lithium metal batteries, you needed to have a sticker that would actually fit on the side of the box and A3 was the minimum box size, so they did waste a lot of space in the box by doing that because they were putting these tiny tiny items in there and because they weren't putting any plastic bubbles, which they call dunnage, they weren't putting any dunnage in it, really small items could actually slip out of the bottom.

Interviewer: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

Interviewee: The other thing is because, when we were on the dock, they told us that those size boxes were when we are building walls in trucks are to be thrown over the wall. So, essentially if you ordered an item that was put through what they call the simple box drop, which is what that particular area was called. You could order something and then an associate could throw it as hard as he could against the back of the wall of the truck and the item would now slam against the side of the box and there would be no protection.

Interviewee: Even with hazmat stuff, where usually the product has designated that you put enough dunnage in it that the item should not be able to move at all.

Interviewee: This particular technology having a lot of screw ups all the time. I think the taper was probably more of the screw ups [inaudible 00:43:27] way more, but a lot of the times those would do with two boxes would get taped together, or they would go in the wrong way and then get stuck and backed up or it would stop working all together.

Interviewee: The thing about [inaudible 00:43:47] the slam lines, which I was never officially in the pack, so I was never really a slam operator, was that something went wrong about every 3 or 4 minutes, but the thing is they would staff one person for like 3 slam lines, because one person could be running back and forth between these lines and if one box is stopped [inaudible 00:44:18] there was [inaudible 00:44:18] that these boxes were, you know, happened so much that they were [inaudible 00:44:29] on conveyors, the line would stop, [inaudible 00:44:31]. When that happens the packers [inaudible 00:44:41]. There were times that when they were [inaudible 00:44:44] and people were [inaudible 00:44:44].

Interviewee: That was that. Another [inaudible 00:44:44].

Interviewer: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:44:44].

Interviewer: Yeah, yeah.

Interviewee: Yeah, so, the [inaudible 00:44:44]. It basically was just, you know, [inaudible 00:44:44] and then just put it into a machine, just you know, just pack it all up and put it on the line.

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:46:02] is really really [inaudible 00:46:11], so because I worked [inaudible 00:46:14] I would find the packages that were opened [inaudible 00:46:36] half-opened or completely opened or like the entire [inaudible 00:47:25] had fallen out [inaudible 00:47:25]. At some point you'd have to manually [inaudible 00:47:25].

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:47:25]

Interviewee: So, [inaudible 00:47:25] a lot of people would, like I remember [inaudible 00:47:27] a week or two [inaudible 00:47:27] ... the original item and they were like [inaudible 00:47:29] because that's [inaudible 00:47:31] it wasn't happening like [inaudible 00:47:35] all the time, like 20% of the time, but when it did happen it was certainly annoying.

Interviewee: But, the smart pack allows [inaudible 00:47:49] an hour [inaudible 00:47:56].

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:48:02]. Normal rate. [inaudible 00:48:03] targeted about 80 an hour but [inaudible 00:48:10], like a blu-ray player, whatever.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: So, this [inaudible 00:48:28]. Yeah they were able to push [inaudible 00:48:31].

Interviewee: They still and you know, [inaudible 00:48:35].

Interviewee: ... because its raining, I would check the [inaudible 00:48:44].

Interviewee: Other times [inaudible 00:48:44] cardboard [inaudible 00:48:44] package and so they did continue with that, they did continue to do what they call slam and pack which was normal envelope and called it slam and pack, they didn't have an auto slam [inaudible 00:49:31] a printer.

Interviewee: So, the single packer was, I don't know how they [inaudible 00:49:38].

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewer: Did Flex and Amazon Prime now exist when you started?

Interviewee: When I started?

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: There was no Prime Now.

Interviewer: When did that roll out, do you know?

Interviewee: To our location or just in general?

Interviewer: To your location.

Interviewee: To our location. I want to say, around 2017, I remember, [inaudible 00:50:27] downloading the Prime Now app and it said something like, this isn't available in your location yet and then I kept on checking back, like a couple times again and it finally was and the Prime Now [inaudible 00:50:44] was I never [inaudible 00:50:46] the name of the facility was UW Prime One. So essentially the name and phrase that they used instead of using international airport [inaudible 00:50:57].

Interviewee: ... say the word [inaudible 00:50:57] and then they would use [inaudible 00:50:57].

Interviewer: Mmm.

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:50:57] put a "U" and [inaudible 00:50:57]. And, we actually did ship to this hub [inaudible 00:50:57] shipped [inaudible 00:50:57] to the hub, so they would have to I guess [inaudible 00:50:57] on their own at the facility. I don't know because I never [inaudible 00:50:57].

Interviewee: ...as far as Flex, what I recall was that after [inaudible 00:51:59] they started lining this thing called BMTL, probably [inaudible 00:52:04] being there, so I'm guessing that the program would still be underway or [inaudible 00:52:11] rollout in other places [inaudible 00:52:13] pretty quickly [inaudible 00:52:16] I started in 2013, lets just say that [inaudible 00:52:16] November-ish [inaudible 00:52:16]

Interviewee: And they didn't explain to us [inaudible 00:52:19] what they were [inaudible 00:52:21] tracking numbers and [inaudible 00:52:21].

Interviewee: But they ran BMTLs sometimes through the sorting center, so sometimes they would go from [inaudible 00:52:59] center to sort center to the delivery station and then they go directly from fulfillment center to delivery station. Now, they recently, by recently I mean, like a year ago, they [inaudible 00:53:17] the entire ship dock, gotten rid of a lot [inaudible 00:53:23], because what they wanted to do was they wanted to start and they can direct [inaudible 00:53:27], from fulfillment straight to delivery without [inaudible 00:53:27].

Interviewer: Hmm.

Interviewee: So what they could do is they would have, different cycles, so they would have, [inaudible 00:53:53].

Interviewee: PCH1 [inaudible 00:53:57] PCH1A and PCH1B. So lets say that A1s go out at night and B1s go out during the day time. You couldn't scan one to the other or there would be different stacking filters. If you threw it in the truck or whatever or scanned it and point to the right location, it would take it. [inaudible 00:54:26] even if you send it too early, quote, un-quote. It [inaudible 00:54:33].

Interviewee: So, I had, [inaudible 00:54:36] routing that [inaudible 00:54:36] I told at least 20 people about it.

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:55:00]

Interviewer: Hmm.

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:55:00] a lot of money, a lot of resources [inaudible 00:55:05] expansion to go straight from [inaudible 00:55:09] to delivery station multiple times a day. [inaudible 00:55:16].

Interviewer: Did it seem like they were trying to replace the more stable delivery folks with the flex drivers?

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:55:31] No, I think. What I saw with the flex drivers they would start at like 6 or 7 at night and they would do, like, number one they would do the packages that were your leftover [inaudible 00:55:55] things that just didn't [inaudible 00:56:03] during the normal delivery.

Interviewee: Or number two they [inaudible 00:56:06] for example if you were [inaudible 00:56:24] to go [inaudible 00:56:24].

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:56:24], but, because the flex drivers can [inaudible 00:56:47].

Interviewee: Times like that when the delivery person has to give a delivery because either, number one, can't get to the site or number two there's not an actual location to drop the package, then the flex [inaudible 00:57:07]. So they will have [inaudible 00:57:09] three four times before they ... [inaudible 00:57:15].

Interviewee: Sometimes, [inaudible 00:57:26] your location, it'll be like an apartment complex that you won't be able to get inside the building and you won't be able to call them because they're at work, so [inaudible 00:58:09] the flex people [inaudible 00:58:09] might have a better chance of getting into the building because the person might be home.

Interviewee: So the flex people work three or four shifts [inaudible 00:58:09]. They work on package delivery [inaudible 00:58:09].

Interviewee: Because Amazon steals tips from the drivers [inaudible 00:58:10]. No matter what.

Interviewer: Pretty different question but I wondered, in your time there, did you ever have to test any new software?

Interviewee: Yeah, there were [inaudible 00:58:34].

Interviewee: Yeah, okay, so here's one. We had a, its called a [inaudible 00:58:50], and this is now a [inaudible 00:59:00] more of your robotics conversation. So essentially you send ... it was basically like an arm that grabbed [inaudible 00:59:14] to a pallet. It could handle eight pallets at once. The person who was running [inaudible 00:59:24], what, which sorts they would want to send down that line. This also had [inaudible 00:59:34] if anything at all gets taken out of the [inaudible 00:59:40] entire line.

Interviewee: There were other problems, like it would miss the pallets, totes would fall through, to the next tote or whatever and then there, there were all sorts of [inaudible 00:59:58] people [inaudible 00:59:59].

Interviewee: So when we started off [inaudible 01:00:05] had been used for a long time [inaudible 01:00:10] which essentially you would have a ... we would [inaudible 01:00:20] and then you would find which sort was going into which part of the lane. However, at some point [inaudible 01:00:32] they put in this software, I think it was just called, like [inaudible 01:00:41] or something like that, and what they would do is, they would recommend, they would give you what their recommended was based on charts, based on kicker, like number of kickers and things like that. So we could either take their recommendation or we could over ride it [inaudible 01:01:06]. So that was what was being tested, I mean I was there for the entire test [inaudible 01:01:12].

Interviewee: ... Once recommended [inaudible 01:01:25] two of them and [inaudible 01:01:34] said no we're not doing that [inaudible 01:01:37] censor [inaudible 01:01:47] to the robot [inaudible 01:01:54] and so they didn't need someone to stand there and down stack [inaudible 01:01:59]. So that position was eliminated. It was a real pain in the ass because it ... if you couldn't figure out how to [inaudible 01:02:13] people would do is they would fill up these huge carts of just over rides, so bring it over to manual [inaudible 01:02:25] and of course this is not going to be [inaudible 01:02:27] because you're talking about something that is [inaudible 01:02:29].

Interviewee: They would try and get the pallets [inaudible 01:02:32].

Interviewee: [inaudible 01:02:32] because everything needed to go out and figure out a way to get it on the truck somehow [inaudible 01:02:32]. You just had to one by one go over there and just throw it in because there's no other way.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewer: You don't still work there now, right?

Interviewee: No.

Interviewer: How did you end up leaving? Or, what led you to leave?

Interviewee: So, I got really ...

Interviewee: So I started noticing the quality [inaudible 01:03:47].

Interviewee: They were starting to [inaudible 01:04:03].

Interviewee: So, [inaudible 01:04:03]

Interviewer: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

Interviewee: Where they just slap a label on something and then that's it.

Interviewee: [inaudible 01:04:20]

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: So, essentially, they allowed people to over ride this [inaudible 01:04:40] they would point out specific [inaudible 01:04:42] things like that, that they wanted in boxes because [inaudible 01:04:52] by ship sorter because [inaudible 01:04:55] too small to be [inaudible 01:05:00] sorter.

Interviewee: So, at one point decided, we're going to [inaudible 01:05:08]. So they started [inaudible 01:05:12] and then I remember I was [inaudible 01:05:18]. I remembered the [inaudible 01:05:27]. The bag was, you know, the bag came down [inaudible 01:05:35] and it was like, [inaudible 01:05:39]. But, anyway the label had [inaudible 01:05:45] so the bag had torn open [inaudible 01:05:51].

Interviewer: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

Interviewee: [inaudible 01:05:53] and when I looked closer to the label I realized that it had been, it was [inaudible 01:06:11] so essentially the [inaudible 01:06:11]. I was like, [inaudible 01:06:21], I brought it to [inaudible 01:06:25] to talk to someone whose in charge of [inaudible 01:06:36]. I had talked to outbound, he said, well you know [inaudible 01:06:45].

Interviewee: So I'm like, okay, what are [inaudible 01:07:07] the aggressiveness that they're pushing [inaudible 01:07:07] just wait there for someone to come over and approve or not approve [inaudible 01:07:17].

Interviewee: So it never happened.

Interviewer: Mmm.

Interviewee: So I was getting tired of that lack of dunnage and things getting, things exploding, not exploding, but things opening up on the ship sorter. So, essentially they [inaudible 01:07:42] that you can skip dunnage if you want to [inaudible 01:07:45] department, but then they added several more box sizes to it.

Interviewee: Another thing they started with envelopes, [inaudible 01:07:58] adhesive backing into the envelope, because they thought that [inaudible 01:08:05] packer [inaudible 01:08:08] packer and I spoke to Senior Ops and I got another [inaudible 01:08:13].

Interviewee: So I told him [inaudible 01:08:22] and he said, uh no, [inaudible 01:08:26]. So they kept on [inaudible 01:08:30] but some people got a bit harder about it [inaudible 01:08:35] realized that [inaudible 01:08:39] down, so they [inaudible 01:08:41].

Interviewee: But, I was just getting sick of it because they had just expanded the [inaudible 01:08:47].

Interviewee: But, the [inaudible 01:08:48] all the time. When that, if it was [inaudible 01:09:14].

Interviewee: So we had to have people [inaudible 01:09:22].

Interviewee: And then [inaudible 01:09:35] I started [inaudible 01:09:35], I was, you know, walking to break and I [inaudible 01:09:45] and nobodies doing anything about it. And the reason [inaudible 01:09:48], from what I remember, [inaudible 01:09:48] in such a way that really were like, [inaudible 01:10:04] and stuff.

Interviewer: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

Interviewee: They were sitting on top of each other. [inaudible 01:10:11].

Interviewee: So I was noticing huge significant [inaudible 01:10:23], I was noticing that a lot of people didn't care, noticing packages being stuck in all sorts of locations, and all the effort that I put in towards getting every single thing out on time was just counted as being [inaudible 01:10:42] and part of that because they started a program [inaudible 01:10:54] problem solving called [inaudible 01:10:54].

Interviewee: But basically [inaudible 01:11:00] ship sorter noticed that these packages have [inaudible 01:11:06] was still going through the sorter, they would mark it as intercept problem solve and it would kick it out to a specific den and then we would scan it as a normal package and it would print out an upgraded ship label, that would do these logistics calculations and it would determine, well, does it just need to wait for 24 hours, is there nothing sooner, sometimes it would go UPS next or Fed-Ex Express, or something like that, because it really really needed to get there, like, really soon.

Interviewee: So we would do these upgrades, but then I found out that I was falling behind on the upgrades because there were so God damn many of these.

Interviewee: So we were, I was leaving problem solve, usually I would stay a half hour or maybe even an hour late and I was leaving the other shift with all these totes of not only [inaudible 01:12:15] had put there and I collected, but all these stars. So, we were increasingly missing CPGs and the quality was going down and I was hearing from other departments that they were consistently raising the rates and we were like why? Well, its because of the one day shipping and now I'm even hearing in the news that there have been more driver crashes and even some fatalities due to the fact that they are rushing people due to this one day shipping crap that they're doing.

Interviewee: Its just too much for one being. They were already pushing people past the limits that they were comfortable and they were not getting any real reward other than seeing, maybe seeing, their name up on a board compared to other associates.

Interviewee: When they decided to do this one day shipping the just crossed all, you know, across most of the departments the found ways to cut corners and [inaudible 01:13:40].

Interviewee: So I had it, because I had devoted a lot to quality in terms of packing things up [inaudible 01:13:53], but, so, making sure other departments weren't cutting corners and packing the wrong thing, because that was happening too.

Interviewee: Being packed [inaudible 01:14:12] and when you have, like I said, when you have two delivery station loads per day and your confusing the ship dock because they're both going to the same place but they won't scan to each other and those are same day sorts, so those are like, essentially have to be delivered within the 24 hours the person ordered it, you know, it seemed that the quality was going down and at one point I just started to say, well it's [inaudible 01:14:56] doesn't care about quality, this is after I brought him a [inaudible 01:15:01] full of [inaudible 01:15:01] something that was, it was a different weight, or mass, or whatever, it was different than the actual shipment said it should be. The guy was like, well its more, so the persons actually getting more than what they ordered so, what's wrong with this. This is not what they ordered. He said, well, Amazon doesn't care about quality anymore so [inaudible 01:15:28].

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewer: Within the Facebook group, you know there were those rumors about Facebook wanting to expand into delivery drones, did that ever come up as a conversation?

Interviewee: You know, I had been hearing about the drones for, like, since I started. So, like back in 2015, the HR people were saying, even at our orientation, yeah, you know the drones that they're talking about, that's not off the table yet, but since then I have not really heard much about it except from like, in the news that they had been testing some things, but, there be any really capability out of our fulfillment center to do that, there would have to be like a specialized facility, I believe that they would have to construct, they would have to train people to pilot those things, so, I didn't hear [inaudible 01:16:45]. They tend not to talk about [inaudible 01:16:48].

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewer: I think, actually, we got through all of my questions, so thank you so much.
