# A6 — Amazon delivery worker interview

Interviewer: Can you tell me about the work that you do? What, what kind of jobs do you have?

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:02:51] distributed them accordingly to wherever the address is located, using them to get out. That's it.

Interviewer: Do you work with-

Interviewee: Like a courier service.

Interviewer: Do you work with Amazon directly?

Interviewee: No, not directly, no ma'am.

Interviewer: Do you have a different management system or how does that work?

Interviewee: Well with the company and how it works is [inaudible 00:03:20] subcontractors, we go through by a company which actually [inaudible 00:03:25] and that's how we acquire the packages and we deliver them.

Interviewer: So is the app that you have an Amazon app or is it one that's created by your third party employer?

Interviewee: No, it's actually created by the Amazon. Yeah, you have to have producers to go into the app and so basically you don't have to be an employee to go through the app.

Interviewer: Oh, interesting. So when you applied, did you apply to Amazon?

Interviewee: That's correct.

Interviewer: And then when they accepted you, were they then, did they transfer you to a different, how did that work?

Interviewee: Okay. When you actually get accepted, you have to come on, and then from orientation [inaudible 00:04:05] couple of days from the orientation, so that can gets to allow the company to run your background, check your work history and so forth [inaudible 00:04:17]

Interviewer: Oh that's okay.

Interviewee: Once you complete the training, you're issued a log in number, and your credentials basically. So you log into the app, you download the app on your smartphone. You log into the app, once you're in the app you can try and [inaudible 00:04:40] so you're all set.

Interviewer: Oh, I see. Okay. So then how did you find, I guess when you started, did you think you were applying for an Amazon job?

Interviewee: Mm, not quite because I do know someone who was actually doing it already and they told me it's not like you're stuck in one place and you just go into a dead-end job you can basically make what you want to make by actually applying yourself. So, I did exactly what I was [inaudible 00:05:16].

Interviewer: Oh good. Okay. So you found out about this job through a friend, is that what you'd said? Or somebody.

Interviewee: That's correct.

Interviewer: Okay. [crosstalk 00:05:24] Do you have other jobs besides this one or is this your main job?

Interviewee: As of right now, this is my base job. I have another job, but it's like I rent - it's almost like Lyft, but it's not, I rent my car out.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: So yeah, it's been a half day job as well.

Interviewer: Okay. And how long have you been working for, it's LaserShip right? How long have you been working for LaserShip?

Interviewee: Just for about a year and a half now.

Interviewer: Oh cool. And for that whole time you, has this been your main job?

Interviewee: Yes. It has always remained my main job. Correct.

Interviewer: Okay. I -

Interviewee: Well why would I want to change the job if I get to make whatever I want? Like if I want to make 200 today, I can make that. If I want to make 400 I can make that. It all depends on what my mood is like I work at my own thing.

Interviewer: Oh cool. And is the earning difference based on how many kind of packages you take or how many trips you take?

Interviewee: Well basically you bid, how it works is you bid on a zip code or they'll issue a zip code based on your address or wherever they feel that they like carriers, or couriers I guess. You can apply your bid, I mean it's pretty much yours, you could have one, [inaudible 00:06:49] you know as much as you can get done.

Interviewer: Yeah. And so do you sign up in the morning for and tell them, I have some time today. Is that how it works?

Interviewee: I'm sorry, repeat that.

Interviewer: How do you get assignments? Is it in the morning you say, I'm available today.

Interviewee: You actually go to the facility where the package is held, pick up your packages, you scan the packages in that you're doing that day on your smartphone. You load the packages on your vehicle and you go ahead. You could go to [inaudible 00:07:22] and have breakfast, or do whatever you need to do before you start and just go ahead and start delivering.

Interviewer: Oh, that's great.

Interviewee: Me, I'm pretty much hurry to get it out the way so I can have the rest of the day to myself.

Interviewer: Oh nice. So when you sign up for the zip codes, do you do that like the night before or that morning? Or how does, how do you figure out -

Interviewee: That morning. You actually go that morning to pick up your assignment. Each morning you'd have to have all the [inaudible 00:07:48] out of your phone and your vehicle. And that morning you have to take your [inaudible 00:07:55] go down and pick up your new packages. And so forth.

Interviewer: So when you scan stuff, do you have a piece of equipment that Amazon gave you or is it like your phone?

Interviewee: No, it's your personal smart phone or smart device.

Interviewer: Okay. And is there other data that you have to track during the day when you're doing shipments?

Interviewee: When you say data as far as like what do you mean?

Interviewer: Yeah. So you mentioned you scan in the boxes that you have in your cart. I assume that when you leave them, you have to say here I'm scanning it and look up leaving it here.

Interviewee: Yeah, [inaudible 00:08:35] like you can actually take picture of it, they have GPS on each of the package, you can take a picture of the fact that you dropped it, [inaudible 00:08:46] You know that the package is going to be accurate.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. Do you have to record other stuff? I guess I've heard before that some people have to take photographs if you have to leave the package because nobody's home.

Interviewee: Correct. Yeah, that's what I said the first time. You'll leave a package, take a picture or either [inaudible 00:09:22] have one [inaudible 00:09:25] So you're left it on the pavement [inaudible 00:09:29] for whatever the situation is,

Interviewer: Yeah. So I'd love to hear more about that training process that you mentioned. What was it like to do the training? What did you have to do?

Interviewee: Training was a breeze. Basically you sit, you listen, you watch a video, [inaudible 00:10:04] other than that, it's relatively ABC. One two three like it's simple. I mean even a GED, like someone who's never gone through anything, they could get it, like an eighth grader could get it. It's that simple. As long as you're computer savvy [inaudible 00:10:25] you're good. I mean everything is basically through the smart device.

Interviewer: Okay, so you did it at home or somewhere like that? Not with a group of people.

Interviewee: Correct.

Interviewer: Okay. I see. So I also wonder, do you have, when something goes wrong or you need to talk to somebody, do you have a specific manager that you talk to?

Interviewee: I do. Yes I do.

Interviewer: Is it-

Interviewee: And we correspond, what will happen is your [inaudible 00:10:55] if you have any problems or whatnot. But usually it's, you know your assignment, you're left alone, you have nobody's bothering you or anything like that. They know when you're done and once everything's completed, because it's all done through the phone, like I said. So I mean it's pretty much worked for yourself. Like you don't have someone [inaudible 00:11:19] bother.

Interviewer: Yeah. So when you talk to them, is it mostly like email or text message?

Interviewee: Emails.

Interviewer: Emails?

Interviewee: Or a text message or you could call. I mean, I know some guys who actually go to the site if they able, I'm done.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: It all depends on how you feel. Like me, I do via email. It's easier.

Interviewer: Okay. And when you started, did you have to sign a contract?

Interviewee: Yeah, of course, you have to.

Interviewer: Was it-

Interviewee: That's just one of, I mean, that verifies that you actually work for them.

Interviewer: Yeah. And did you sign one that was with LaserShip or for Amazon?

Interviewee: LaserShip, not the other. Correct.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. Do you feel like there were skills that you needed to develop to do this job?

Interviewee: I'm sorry?

Interviewer: Were there skills that you needed to develop to do the job?

Interviewee: If you're tech savvy, it's fine. Not really. I mean tech savvy and you know, maybe be able to lift 20 to 30 pound boxes, but I don't even think the box reaches the 30 pounds. It's been, even an eighth grader can do this. It's pretty simple.

Interviewer: Yeah. So how do you, so you mentioned a little bit earlier that you tend to structure your week so you could get it done. You get the work done early in the morning. So what are your-

Interviewee: When I go inside, what I do is I look at all my boxes. You have to scan them inside, you have to load them into your device. So when I look at everything, I look at the zip code. Okay. And I look at the streets and the avenues. So I'll put this street this avenue on one side, the street this avenue on one side. Like if you have a Northwest, I'll do everything in Northwest, I'll number those. And then if I have everything like in Southwest, I'll number those and so forth. Southeast, Northwest or South, what is it, Southwest of East, Northwest, Northeast and so forth, depending on the zip codes.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. And then do you work every day including weekends?

Interviewee: Not every. I work basically, you set your own schedule. I do Monday through Sunday, but not Saturday. I don't work Saturday.

Interviewer: Okay, and do you do this based on, do you have like a financial goal that, sorry, do you have like a financial goal that you try to hit every week?

Interviewee: I'm sorry? Speak again.

Interviewer: Do you have a financial goal that you try to hit every week?

Interviewee: Of course, I'll try and make as much as possible. I usually set it as $2000.

Interviewer: Okay, and you work, it sounds like it's six days a week-

Interviewee: Correct.

Interviewer: Cause you said Saturday is the only day you take off?

Interviewee: Correct, correct.

Interviewer: Is the amount that you get paid per hour pretty consistent?

Interviewee: Yes it is.

Interviewer: Even if it's there are more deliveries in one day in that code.

Interviewee: Oh trust me. Yes it is because the more the merrier with me, I have a pretty different outlook, that I don't base my, I don't base this job on an hourly job. I base it on, Hey, what is your goal at the end of the week? How much do you want to end up with?

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: So I'll take on, like I said, 200, 300 bucks a day if I'm trying to get $2000 by the end of the week.

Interviewer: Yeah. Wow. That's a lot. So you do a lot of deliveries in one day.

Interviewee: Yeah. But I mean it once you know, then you're pretty good.

Interviewer: Yeah. Has anything changed since you started working for them?

Interviewee: I'm sorry?

Interviewer: Are you still there? [crosstalk 00:15:04] I asked has anything changed since you first started working for them?

Interviewee: Has anything changed? No.

Interviewer: No. Have they-

Interviewee: Everything's been [inaudible 00:15:24]. Yeah, I'm sorry.

Interviewer: No, no. That's all right. I asked, have you had to test any new software on the app?

Interviewee: Have I tested any of the new software on the app?

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: I don't understand. Like everything that I've seen on the app is basically, it's been consistent, and then like I only use a certain amount of things on the app. Like there's nothing that I have to try or whatever. Everything that I do is usually the correct way, so.

Interviewer: How does this job compare to other jobs you've had before?

Interviewee: Oh, it's awesome. Like I said, I've never been more happier. I have a job now that I could pretty much set my own pace. Not only that, but I mean if I feel like I want to make, I feel like I don't want to work that day, then I'm not, and I'll just [inaudible 00:16:15].

Interviewer: yeah. So do you think of this as like you're a freelancer or do you, can you hear me?

Interviewee: Yeah, I would consider myself a freelancer.

Interviewer: Oh, okay. Yeah.

Interviewee: It's pretty much, to me like it's my prerogative to choose, whether the pay or whether I want to do that, the whatever the case may be. Like it's all my office.

Interviewer: Yeah. So do you think you'll still be doing this in a couple of years?

Interviewee: Of course. Of course. I think that this is a great opportunity for young entrepreneurs or even like people who don't know what they want to do. Like if you want some extra cash, I think a universal job for a lot of different people. People of different ages, people of different work ethic, work background and the like. It's a great opportunity for anything and everybody. That's what I see.

Interviewer: That's great. Okay. So I have a couple of questions about the future of work. Do you worry about things like self driving cars?

Interviewee: No, no I really don't. I really don't. I mean I've never, I mean you got people who like antiques and nah I'm not into that crap. You got people who are eh I like tech. It's not a big deal.

Interviewer: Yeah. If Amazon or LaserShip told you that they were going to try to use some self driving cars, would that make you nervous or would you be interested in it?

Interviewee: I would definitely get into it. Let's try to find out how to purchase [inaudible 00:18:05] I would try to purchase a self driving car if that was, if that may be the case.

Interviewer: Yeah. Cool. Do you think that seems like something you could imagine Amazon trying to do?

Interviewee: Ma'am?

Interviewer: Oh, I was asking. That's okay. I was asking if you thought this seemed like something Amazon might try to do.

Interviewee: Well, I haven't heard anything from it. I don't [inaudible 00:18:29]

Interviewer: I can't hear you right now. I don't know if it cut off, but-

Interviewee: Change has always been scary.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: If it happens, it happens if it doesn't, it doesn't, I'm on board.

Interviewer: Okay. Awesome. We got through all my questions.
