# A7 — Amazon delivery worker interview

Interviewer: All right, to start, can you tell me about the kind of work that you do?

Interviewee: Yeah. Right now I'm delivering bases for a Papa John's and basically all this is, when we're not delivering then you got to wash dishes and things like that at the shop. And a lot of times if we're having a slow night we'll go and we'll help make some of the pizzas of whatnot and then go out and deliver them and all that stuff. But mainly like, there is really nothing hard about it. You just basically live on tips and that's really what it comes down to. You can have nights where you make up to $15 an hour if you get a bunch of orders in, like hotel orders or whatnot. Or you can have some nights where you make maybe five bucks on my [inaudible 00:02:44] .

Interviewer: Do you also work for Amazon or Uber?

Interviewee: Work where?

Interviewer: Do you, so you said you worked for Papa John's. Do you also work for Amazon or Uber?

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:02:57].

Interviewer: Sorry you broke up. What did you say?

Interviewee: What is it?

Interviewer: Oh, I just couldn't hear you. It was, it was kind of a blurry sound for a second. So you work at Papa John's and where were the other places you worked?

Interviewee: There's Papa John's, there's Amazon. When I was up at Amazon, it was a good job, but I was just never home. So that's why I didn't really like it. I've done some delivering stuff for oil field supplies and equipment.

And then I just worked in other foundries, some whatnot. But other than that, that's my main work experience.

Interviewer: And so I'd like to ask about, I think I want to focus this interview on the Amazon work. Is that all right with you? Even though you said you don't work there anymore right?

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: What did you do for Amazon?

Interviewee: I had a CDL and I delivered whatever orders. I'd drive out and deliver everybody's stuff to their door and whatnot. And sometimes I'd get back, or sometimes they get orders shipped back and then I'd have to take that to [inaudible 00:04:23] . And then they would bring the boxes back in, of returned items and things like that. And sometimes it was eight to 12 hour days. And, it wasn't a bad job. I just didn't really care for being out all the time like that.

Interviewer: Was it, were you a Flex driver or? What was your job? Was it for Amazon directly or were you a Flex driver where you [inaudible 00:04:54]

Interviewee: What is it ?

Interviewer: Were you working for Amazon Flex?

Interviewee: Yeah

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. How did you find the job?

Interviewee: Well, I went online .Because every once in a while before I did that, I used to go up there and work their seasonal things at [location] and seeing that pop up on, on their website, and that's how I found that job and I applied for it. They called me up there and then I started work.

Interviewer: Ok

Interviewee: Because I'd worked for them seasonal for one season and I did pretty good I guess. And I think that's why they hired me in [inaudible 00:05:41]

Interviewer: Yeah. Were you doing delivery for them when you were doing seasonal work?

Interviewee: What?

Interviewer: Were you doing delivery work for them when you did seasonal work or were you working in a warehouse?

Interviewee: Oh yeah. it was more like a thing where I worked in the warehouse for one or two if there wasn't anything like delivers for me to take out but usually my primary job was doing deliveries and work in the warehouse I could do when there was, like nothing else.

Interviewer: And you said the shifts at Amazon were 12 hours, but did you have other jobs at the same time or were you just working for Amazon during that time?

Interviewee: I was just working for Amazon during that time.

Interviewer: What hours were your shifts? Were they day shifts or night shifts?

I was on night shift. [crosstalk 00:06:42] I'd have to go get a truck on days and they needed me to do it and then I just kind of more like a short, one gig.

Yeah. So, what time would you go in and what time would you leave?

Interviewee: What is it?

Interviewer: What time would you go in and what time would you leave?

Interviewee: It just depended. Sometimes I'd go in at 4:00 in the morning and then you're home at 8:00 at night depending on deliveries and what they needed me to drive and whatnot. And there are some times where, another night, or when I do stuff or return stuff on night shifts, I'd go in at maybe sometimes 10:00 or 11:00 in the evening and then get home about 5:00 or 6:00 in the morning, which wasn't too bad. Mainly just, depending on how quick that I was able to get things done and then,[inaudible 00:07:38] they'd give me a list of the different things that needed to be done during the shift and how much that they needed driven here whatever that they needed driven there needs there. Basically, the quicker you did it, the quicker you got home.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay.

Did you have some kind of training when you started the job?

Interviewee: Yeah, so a friend of mine, I can't pronounce his name, some Mexican guy that I was working with, the first two weeks I worked with him and he showed me the works and how to do stuff and whatnot. Things like that.

Interviewer: How long did you work for Amazon?

Interviewee: About six months.

Interviewer: And did you have a specific manager that you talked to? When something went wrong?

Interviewee: What is it?

Interviewer: Did you have a specific manager that you could talk to if something went wrong?

Interviewee: All right. I'm sorry, what?

Interviewer: Did you have a manager at your Amazon job that you could talk to if something went wrong?

Interviewee: No. Manager crap see, you had different, some shift weeks maybe, but they couldn't do much. Most of the time you had to go online or call a number to get ahold of anybody. That's another thing I didn't care for about that place is, I want a boss I can just go in and talk to. But no, for that, you got to call somebody or you got to get online and get ahold of somebody. That's how it is there 24/7 and it's a pain in the ass. You can't get a hold of anybody because they put you through all that stupid automation shit and so, just giving you a direct number. So that's, that's the main issue I didn't like about that.

Interviewer: And, when you started, what, I think you might have told me a little bit about it, but can you tell me again what the application process was like when you tried to start the job with them?

Interviewee: Yeah, you just go on the Amazon website and search in jobs for [Location], [inaudible 00:09:58] and all that stuff. And if it's there, it'll pop up. For the most part is, they hire for a bunch of stuff.

Interviewer: And then did you download an app or anything on your phone?

Interviewee: Wait, what?

Interviewer: Did you, for your shifts and stuff? Did you have to download an app or something?

Interviewee: Yeah, we had a website. One I can try to remember it is like...I always used the company computers if I needed to get online to get ahold of anybody. I always kept a list of the phone numbers on me. In the truck and things like that. A number of cases I did have issues. I can call one of the numbers, there's an app that they give you, but I just can't remember the name of it. It's got something to do with like Amazon workplace, stuff like that. I'm not exactly sure.

Interviewer: And with the driving routes and stuff, did they give you a map or how did you get your assignments for driving?

Interviewee: Oh just some GPSs

Interviewer: Okay.

Oh, so then they would, they would just tell you in the morning, here's what you have to do, and you would just plug it into the GPS?

Interviewee: Yep. Well their GPS has got like a Google maps and stuff on. They're awesome.

Interviewer: Was there any kind of data that you had to record when you were doing trips? Like, I picked this up at this time, I dropped off at this time, or anything like that?

Interviewee: Oh, see, what we did, we scanned the boxes, there were barcodes that they'd scan on the little RF gun deal they gave us. Then as soon as the scanner...we'd scan it before we left. And then whenever we get to that location, there's a barcode of the location you scan too. And then as soon as you scan that barcode, then that tells you right there that your stuff's been delivered. And then the guys in the warehouse just have to unload it. Or when we were on delivery we'd go and scan the box set it on the porch and all that stuff. And basically it's like playing mailman. And then as soon as you scanned the box and everything and set, and you put on the gun now, hey this delivered at this address and whatnot, then it would have the time, the date and everything. You just scan it and then we deliver it.

Interviewer: And you said that, were you driving your own car or you were driving an Amazon truck?

Interviewee: I was on an Amazon truck.

Interviewer: Okay. Do you feel like there were skills you had to develop to do this job.

Interviewee: What?

Interviewer: Were there skills you had to develop to do this job?

Interviewee: Not really. Pretty cut back and simple, drive, deliver this, deliver that. If you can't do that. You're a fucking dumbass. Sorry.

Interviewer: Yes.

Okay. Did you end up making the same amount of money per hour when you were working there?

Interviewee: What do you mean?

Interviewer: Oh, did it vary? Was there like, did you get paid the same amount per hour when you were driving for Amazon or did it vary depending on what you were delivering and where?

Interviewee: Oh, that was drug brims. I was making $21 an hour. But when I was a warehouse worker, I was only making like 15.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: They say their driver's pretty good. (laughs).

Interviewer: Yeah.

And did you end up working when you were driving? Did you work every day?

Interviewee: Oh, I worked every day good, yeah. And then whenever they needed me, they'd send me an email or something like that asking me if I could do this or do that or bear a mandatory overtime thing. But if it was mandatory overtime, they'd let me know 48 hours prior if I was working on my day off. My days off, I had it set up to where they were Tuesdays and Wednesdays while I was working up there, so if they need me to work on Tuesday or Wednesday, they'd either ask me if I'd come in the same day, which usually I told them If you asked me, I'll come in, I don't mind.

Bu what I hate is when you try to shove the overtime down my neck and I'm like, well you can say nothing about it but if they had the mandatory overtime then like said it'd be 48 hours in advance and before you start your job, you signed their contract saying you can work that overtime as long as there's reasonable combination on when they give it to you. So that's, you sign that so you have to do it.

Interviewer: How did the Amazon job compare to other work that you'd done before?

Interviewee: Say what?

Interviewer: How did the Amazon job compare to other work that you'd done before?

Interviewee: Amazon was easy. It's just boring because it's like you're alone 24/7 , basically, unless you're working in the warehouse and you just, you're always loading the truck and you have nobody talk to [inaudible 00:15:17] . So kind of sucked on that on that end. But other than that, it wasn't too bad.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Okay. So now I'd like to ask a couple of questions about the future of work. Do you worry about things like self driving cars?

Interviewee: I don't support them. The reason I don't support that is because, when you first learn how to drive and you're a teenager, getting behind that wheel and actually driving and that feeling you get, I don't want to take that away from any kid and that's why I don't support self driving cars. I just honestly, I think they'll end up having a recall, somebody is going to get killed by one of those son of bitches and then it's going to be, Oh yeah look at self driving cars now. So I rather that just don't support them.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: Amazon? No, before I left they were talking about bringing in some self driving trucks.

Interviewer: Oh, really?

Interviewee: Yeah, That's something they were discussing. I wasn't supposed to hear about it, but we were in a company meeting. They were having a company meeting and I was walking past the dock or the dock area and I over heard them talk about it and I guess if they do get them, they're supposed to be released in I think the summer 2022 or some crap like that from what they were saying about like, I mean what I eavesdropped on.

Interviewer: Yes.

And was it like managers talking about it?

Interviewee: Yeah, it was a, it was like a project meeting deals where they had the PowerPoint out and there was a guy up there that was as nervous as crap and the upper guys just sitting around the conference table and all that.

Interviewer: Yeah.

But, nobody from the delivery team was invited to that meeting?

Interviewee: Oh, there's nobody invited to speak right there to it, looks like a bunch of [specific descriptions of attendees redacted]. That's when I heard him talking about self-driving trucks.

Interviewer: Yeah. [crosstalk 00:17:42]

Interviewee: Get them. Then all they're going to do is put a bunch of people out of work.

Interviewer: Yeah. After you heard that, did you go talk to other drivers about it?

Interviewee: [inaudible 00:17:54] but now I see different people, you know or see different things online about how they're really trying to launch it out and at first, as I said, I didn't think nothing of it.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Would you ever want to go work for Amazon again?

Interviewee: Yeah.I mean, yeah, I'm fine, you know, if I really need the money, yeah, I would, but I mean right now I'm, I got enough money saved back. I'm relaxed. I, you know, I'm stable and I don't really have to go work up there right now.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Okay. I guess my last question is, are there any other kind of jobs you'd like to do in the future?

Interviewee: Yeah. Steel plant. I'd love to go back and work for Steel plant again, cause I love dangerous shit.

Interviewer: Great. Thank you so much.
