# A9 — Amazon delivery worker interview

Interviewer: Great. So can you tell me about the work that you do? What kind of jobs do you have right now?

Interviewee: Well, the kind of, I do have a job delivering stuff to, I do have a job, I have that one. I also do, I sell CBD oil on the side. I do have two jobs.

Interviewer: Okay. Yeah.

Interviewee: Both jobs are really good. The one that I deliver, I deliver in my neighborhood, I have my own car, so I just, and then I have neighbors that can't get out of their home and they need me to go get things for them from the store and then I get paid like that.

Interviewer: Yeah. Do you you work, with the CBD oil, do you work for yourself?

Interviewee: Well, no. I mean I do. I actually, I mean I did, I do work for myself. I do have my own business. I started it and a lot of people were interested in the products and I started on my own, I started doing it myself and now it's basically getting bigger and bigger.

Interviewer: That's cool. With the delivery work, who do you work for?

Interviewee: What's the one? It's one of the, I think it's, I found it on Facebook. They pay like 20 bucks an hour to, yeah, it's the one where, I forgot what it is. The name of it.

Interviewer: That's okay.

Interviewee: They pay you to deliver groceries in the community. I chose to be in my own neighborhood until I can find other parts of life in the area that I live in. Well I think it's, it's not Instacart. It's one of them. I forgot what it's called.

Interviewer: Do you work with Amazon?

Interviewee: Do I work at Amazon?

Interviewer: Yeah. Or do you work with Amazon? Are you a driver for Amazon?

Interviewee: Oh no, I'm not a driver for Amazon. No.

Interviewer: Oh, you work with a different one?

Interviewee: Yes. Yeah.

Interviewer: Oh, okay. I thought you were working with Amazon. I'm sorry. Did you ever work with Amazon Flex?

Interviewee: I have. I have before, yes.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay.

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: I think I'd like to ask you about that, if that's okay with you?

Interviewee: That's fine, yeah.

Interviewer: Okay, great. Did you, so you mentioned that you found something through Facebook. Did you find the Amazon Flex job through Facebook?

Interviewee: Yeah, yeah. Facebook was the only, I find a lot of good jobs on Facebook, and it's easy when you have a car too.

Interviewer: Yeah. Yeah. When you say you find, is it through a group or something? Or where do you look to find jobs on Facebook?

Interviewee: In my hometown, and then I do also look for groups.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: That know of places that are hiring and I get a lot of referrals in my email.

Interviewer: Oh, cool. Okay. All right. How long did you work for Amazon Flex while you were there?

Interviewee: A couple of, about a year.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: Until I wanted, until I found something else.

Interviewer: Yeah. Did you leave because you were, you mentioned that you wanted to drive locally. Did you leave because you wanted to drive in a specific neighborhood or was there other stuff?

Interviewee: Yeah, it's because I wanted to drive yeah, and I got my license. I mean, while I was working there, I was commuting back and forth. Through coworkers, but you want your own transportation. That's what happened.

Interviewer: Yeah. When you were working with Amazon Flex, did you drive with somebody else? Or what did you do for the job?

Interviewee: I drove with somebody else, but I still got paid because I didn't have a car at the time. I was studying, trying to, I was waiting, trying to study to get my license. I did achieve it. I finally was able to drive, I was finally able to fund my own car with my own gas.

Interviewer: Yeah. When you drove with somebody else, was your job to take the package out of the car and put it on the-

Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.

Interviewer: Porch or whatever? Did you also have to, did you have to record any kind of data?

Interviewee: I did have a clipboard with me and the person that I drove with did tell me that I, and that's exactly what happened. I did have to record data, how many packages I was giving, putting there, and that's basically what happened. It's not a hard job.

Interviewer: Yeah. How did you find the person that you were driving with? Were you paired by Amazon?

Interviewee: Yeah, I was. Yep. I live, they found a person that lived close to me that was willing to commute with me. I was able to give them gas money and then, until I got my own wheels.

Interviewer: Yeah. Then did Amazon pay both of you for the job? Were you both employees?

Interviewee: Yes, we did, yes.

Interviewer: Okay. Did you work together for that whole year that you were there? Was that your consistent person?

Interviewee: Yeah. Yep.

Interviewer: Oh cool, and did you have any kind of introduction or training for the job?

Interviewee: I did, yes. I didn't know what I was doing. I thought it would be a hard job, but they did. We did. We watched the video and I remember they wanted to make sure that we had either our own transportation or somebody that can take us until we had our own means. There was training.

Interviewer: Yeah. Do you remember, so did you get the training for what kind of data you had to record from the video or who told you these are the things you have to keep track of?

Interviewee: Well, it was a video and then there was also somebody speaking at the training. It was kind of both.

Interviewer: Oh, I see. Okay. Did you have a, so you mentioned the clipboard. Is there also a scanner or something you had to use? Your phone or, I don't know what?

Interviewee: Yeah, there was a scanner. Yes.

Interviewer: Did they give it to you or did you have to buy your own or how did that work?

Interviewee: They gave it to us, and then if you wanted to you can purchase one yourself or just use that one until you wanted to not work with them basically anymore. Yeah.

Interviewer: Yeah. With your routes, did you find out in advance where you'd be driving for the day or how did that part go?

Interviewee: Yeah, they said because I lived in the [location] area, I would be staying basically in the [same location] area, and the person that drove around, that drove me around, also lives in the same area too.

Interviewer: Okay. How did you figure out what shifts you had? How did that part work?

Interviewee: They wanted to know if we had, they basically asked do you have any doctors that you need to see? Do you have any appointments? I coordinated with my schedule. The day I did not have to see important appointments I was able to work. I did work a lot because at the time I didn't have a lot of, I didn't have any appointments, so I was free a lot of the time too.

Interviewer: Yeah. Yeah. How many hours did you work per week when you were there?

Interviewee: About 40

Interviewer: 40, oh, so it was full time?

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: Yeah. Wow. That's a lot of, that sounds like it must've been a lot of work. Was it a lot of work?

Interviewee: It was a lot of work, but you know what, I mean, hey, you learn a new skill. I mean it was something that was fun. I made, I met a lot of new people, everybody was really helpful. If you had any questions or any issues you had, you could talk to anybody about it.

Interviewer: Yeah. Would you, but you were still driving a normal car, right? Did you have to go back and forth to pick things up multiple times a day?

Interviewee: Yeah, but it was fine. I mean it didn't bother me because there was always something to do, so I just made sure, and there wasn't a lot of the time where they didn't have something for employees to do. As long as you lived in the area, you were fine with going to that area to pick up and drop off.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. Was there a time where your job at Flex overlapped with one of the other jobs that you started to have? Or did you leave Flex and then do something different?

Interviewee: No, I just, after a year I just wanted to try something, because I had also got my license. I wanted to try something different. I enjoyed working with this [inaudible 00:10:39] company, but I wanted to try something different. That's how I found the other job that I had found on Facebook too.

Interviewer: Oh, I see. Okay. Do you remember how much you got paid for an hour at the Amazon job?

Interviewee: Oh yeah, it was 10 bucks an hour.

Interviewer: Okay. Were you working every day? Or did you get to take some days off?

Interviewee: I got to pick my own days, but I mostly wanted to work because I know the weekends, the ones that they require people to work more, because there was more work to be done during the weekend. I did work. I did work a couple of, three days out of the week, three or four days and I did work Friday and Saturday and I think, Sundays were my day off. I think that was for a lot of, well that may have been like a lot of the employees too.

Interviewer: Yeah. While you were there, did anything change in the company or the way that they were paying you or technology?

Interviewee: No, everything was still the same. Everything was still the same.

Interviewer: Yeah. Did you ever have to test any new software or anything for them?

Interviewee: Actually, no. They wanted to make sure whatever kind of experience you had or how they were going to train you it's what you had experience for.

Interviewer: Yeah. Did you ever have to do anything with your phone while you were working with them?

Interviewee: They wanted to, they asked me to do something, like download an app. What they did was they asked me to download the Amazon app, Amazon Prime or Amazon app, and I did that. Actually, I remember one time they actually allowed all the employees, they gave all the employees an Amazon gift card and they allowed the employees to purchase something. As an incentive basically.

Interviewer: Oh, to download their app?

Interviewee: Yeah. Yeah, and then just to check it out, but they wanted everybody to rate the Amazon Prime app. That's what it was. They wanted everybody to rate it, because it looked different and they said, well if you download it, we'll give you a gift card. I think it was the second month that you were there or something like that just to see, just to get people to download it. A lot of people downloaded it and they got a free gift card.

Interviewer: Yeah. Yeah. There you go. How did this job compare to other work that you've done?

Interviewee: I mean, how do, say that again?

Interviewer: How did your Amazon job compare to other jobs that you've had before?

Interviewee: As far as what? Me liking the job or what?

Interviewer: Yeah, in terms of your quality of life and working with different people.

Interviewee: Oh, okay. Yeah, I really, it helped me deal with customers better. I mean, it helped me be a little more sociable with people. I'm not shy, but it just helped me build up my self-esteem, because you're working with different people from all different walks of life, but as long as you do your job and, you're okay. Like I said, it wasn't, at first it's hard, but it wasn't a hard job at all.

Interviewer: Yeah. Did you have when, when something, when there was an issue or something, did you have a manager that you could talk to?

Interviewee: I did, yes. Yes. I never had any issues, because the person that drove me around I got along with.

Interviewer: Yeah. You mentioned, were there different, what were other kinds of skills you had to learn to be able to do the job?

Interviewee: I know that, well most of the time it was just being, it was most of the time talking to customers. They gave us a script to read. They would ask us to read it and then pretend we were talking to the person. If you were able to deal with that, then that's basically what, you basically passed the test. You basically were able to start the job. They didn't really require a lot of skills. I mean other people have different jobs, but the ones who drove out, they wanted to make sure that the person was able to do math, with the scanner and with the writing of different things down.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. Do you think you'd ever go back to it in the future? Did you like the job enough for that?

Interviewee: If I don't, I ever would. I would refer somebody. I know a lot of people who don't have jobs, but I mean I might if they, I might, you never know because it may come up again, this job.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. While you were working there, did you think of yourself as someone who's an employee of Amazon, or did you feel more like you were a contractor or freelancer?

Interviewee: I felt like an employee, because I learned a lot of new skills and I did, at one point in time I thought about staying there, but I also wanted to try something different.

Interviewer: Yeah. Yeah. Are there, of the skills that you described using that you learned while you were there? Have you had to use them again in other jobs?

Interviewee: Yeah, like math, because I'm so bad at math, I'm not, I mean math, basic math. I'm sorry. Budgeting. I mean I don't know why I had to use that, but it helps, I mean because, budgeting and then writing down things. I mean, and having legible handwriting is important too, so they can read the invoice too.

Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. Are there other kinds of jobs you'd like to do in the future?

Interviewee: Just customer service right now. I mean, like I said, I've learned a lot, not just from Amazon, from other jobs. I learned how to do other things, other skills. Plus I know how to drive now I got my license too.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: That's a plus right there. Yeah.

Interviewer: Yeah. Do you think if you were driving, would you make more as an Amazon Flex driver than you did while you were the driver's assistant?

Interviewee: I probably would, yeah. Oh yeah.

Interviewer: Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Now I have a couple of questions about the future of work. Do you worry about stuff like self-driving cars?

Interviewee: Do I worry about what?

Interviewer: Self-driving cars.

Interviewee: Do I worry about self-driving cars?

Interviewer: Yes.

Interviewee: What do you mean, do I ...

Interviewer: Do they, have you heard about them?

Interviewee: You know what? Somebody posted something like that on Facebook and at first I didn't believe it, but I guess it is possible.

Interviewer: Yeah. I guess if Amazon was, or some other company that you've worked for or might work for, said, "We're thinking about adding some automated cars. Some self-driving cars that don't need people to drive them, to do our deliveries." Would that make you nervous or would you be interested in it?

Interviewee: I would be interested actually, because when you're nervous, and you're scared, you always want to try new, it's always good to try new things.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: I mean I would love to try it. I would even, there was even a car that I saw, ma'am, that somebody was, instead of using gas, they were using fish grease. I don't even know how that's possible.

Interviewer: Oh whoa. Yeah.

Interviewee: You never, yeah. You never know what's possible.

Interviewer: Yeah. You'd want to learn more about it and how it worked?

Interviewee: Of course, yeah.

Interviewer: That's cool. Would you ever take a drive in one?

Interviewee: Oh yeah, I would. I sure would, because I can tell people my experiences, and you never know, people might get excited, they may want to try it.

Interviewer: Yeah. Could you imagine Amazon doing something like that?

Interviewee: Oh, I could. Yeah. Amazon has come out with a lot of wonderful things. I mean, you never know what you can find on there. To be honest with you I've ordered circus animal cookies on there. I've ordered, yeah, I love, and you cannot find those in the store at all. The stores won't even sell them anymore. Amazon is the only place that I would go on there and I'd be like, "Oh my God, I found my circus animals."

Interviewer: Yeah. Yeah. They have some of everything. That's true.

Interviewee: Yeah.

Interviewer: With the delivery work that you do now, is it mostly, do you work for a company or do you do, you mentioned that you also bring things to your neighbors. Do you do those informally or is it through a company? Or what do you do?

Interviewee: It's through a company, I'm trying to think, is it Instacart? I think, it has to, it's like Instacart. Yeah.

Interviewer: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. How did-

Interviewee: I have neighbors over here that are incapacitated, and I said, well, and then what they'll do is they'll sign me up and then I just send them my time sheet basically and then I get paid.

Interviewer: Oh nice. Okay. Does it feel like a really different job than when you were doing Amazon Flex work?

Interviewee: Say that again.

Interviewer: Does the job feel really different with Instacart compared to what you were doing with Amazon Flex?

Interviewee: No, it feels the same, because I like to help people. Give customer service.

Interviewer: Yeah.

Interviewee: You're helping people who can't do nothing really for themselves. That can't get out of the house, and I happen to have a car and it's easy for me to get out and get in my car and just go to the store. Plus I can just shop for myself, if I need to, at the same time.

Interviewer: Yeah. The last question I wanted to ask because I forgot to ask earlier, was when you were doing the Flex stuff, did you go to warehouses to pick things up or did you go to stores to pick things out? How did it work?

Interviewee: Yeah, I went to both actually. They sent me to both places.

Interviewer: Yeah, okay, so-

Interviewee: It was mostly stores, but a couple of times it was warehouses.

Interviewer: Oh, interesting. Would they just tell you, would it just appear in a sheet where it was like-

Interviewee: Yeah. Exactly, yep, yep.

Interviewer: When you got your deliveries for the day, was it they handed you a piece of paper and they're like, "Here are the instructions," or did they email them to you, or what did they do?

Interviewee: No, they email us. If you have an email address, they would email them to you or sometimes you can just pick them up when you went to work.

Interviewer: Okay, and that was, and they'd give you the whole thing for the day. It wouldn't change while you were out?

Interviewee: No.

Interviewer: Okay.

Interviewee: No.
